<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">£1200</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Ned Cromarty had returned home and was going upstairs, when he heard a voice cry:</p>
			<p>“Ned!”</p>
			<p>The ancient stone stair, spiralling up round the timeworn pillar that seemed to have no beginning or end, gave at intervals on to doors which looked like apertures in a cliff. Through one of these he turned and at the end of a brief passage came to his sister’s sitting room. In that medieval setting of ponderous stone, it looked almost fantastic in its daintiness. It was a small room of many cushions and many colours, its floor covered with the softest rugs and its walls with innumerable photographs, largely of country houses where Miss Cromarty had visited.</p>
			<p>Evidently she was a lady accustomed to a comfortable life in her roving days, and her sitting room seemed to indicate very distinctly that she proposed to live up to this high standard permanently.</p>
			<p>“Oh Neddy dear, I want to talk to you about something,” she began in her brisk way and with her brightest smile.</p>
			<p>Her brother, though of a simple nature, was by this time aware that when he was termed “Neddy dear” the conversation was apt to turn on Miss Cromarty’s requirements.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said he, “how much is the cheque to be this time?”</p>
			<p>“How clever you’re getting!” she laughed. “But it isn’t a cheque I want this time. It’s only a motor car.”</p>
			<p>He looked at her doubtfully for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Pulling my leg; or a real car?”</p>
			<p>“Real car of course⁠—nice one too!”</p>
			<p>“But, my dear girl, we’ve just put down our car. You agreed it was necessary.”</p>
			<p>“I agreed then; but it isn’t necessary now.”</p>
			<p>“Have you come into a fortune? I haven’t!”</p>
			<p>“You’ve come into £1200.”</p>
			<p>Again he looked at her, and this time his expression changed.</p>
			<p>“That’s only a debt wiped out.”</p>
			<p>“Well, and your great argument for economy was that you had to pay back that debt. Now you haven’t. See, Neddy dear?”</p>
			<p>Her brother began to shake his head, and her smile became a little less bright.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to get my affairs into a tangle again just yet.”</p>
			<p>“But they weren’t in a bad tangle. Cancelling that debt makes us absolutely all right again. It’s absurd for people like us not to have a car! Look at the distances from our neighbours! One can’t go anywhere. I’ll undertake to keep down the household expenses if you get the car.”</p>
			<p>Her brother frowned out of the window.</p>
			<p>“No,” he said, “it’s too soon to get a car again.”</p>
			<p>“But you told me you had got part of that £1200 in hand and hoped to make up the rest very soon. What are you going to do with the money now?”</p>
			<p>He glanced at her over his shoulder for an instant and then his mouth assumed a grim and obstinate look she knew too well.</p>
			<p>“I may need the money,” he said briefly. “And I’m not much in the mood at this moment for buying things.”</p>
			<p>Behind his back Lilian made a little grimace. Then in a tone of sisterly expostulation she said:</p>
			<p>“You are worrying too much over this affair, Ned. You’ve done all you can⁠—”</p>
			<p>He interrupted her brusquely:</p>
			<p>“And it’s dashed little! What have I actually done? Nothing! One needs a better man than me.”</p>
			<p>“Well, there’s your friend Silent Simon, and all the police⁠—”</p>
			<p>“A fat lot of good they are!” said Ned.</p>
			<p>His sister looked a little surprised at his unusual shortness of temper. To her he was very rarely like this.</p>
			<p>“You need a good day’s shooting to take your mind off it for a little,” she suggested.</p>
			<p>He turned upon her hotly.</p>
			<p>“Do you know the story that’s going about, Lilian?”</p>
			<p>“Sir Malcolm and the Farmond girl? Oh, rather,” she nodded.</p>
			<p>“Is that how it strikes you?”</p>
			<p>Lilian Cromarty jumped. There was something very formidable in her brother’s voice.</p>
			<p>“My dear Ned, don’t frighten me! Eat me if you like, but eat me quietly. I didn’t say I believed the story.”</p>
			<p>“I hope not,” he said in the same grim tone, “but do you mean to say it doesn’t strike you as the damnedest slander ever spread?”</p>
			<p>“Between myself I hadn’t called it the ‘damnedest’ anything. But how do I know whether it’s a slander?”</p>
			<p>“You actually think it might conceivably be true?”</p>
			<p>She shrugged her well-gowned shoulders.</p>
			<p>“I never could stand Malcolm Cromarty⁠—a conceited little jackanapes. He hasn’t a penny and he was head over ears in debt.”</p>
			<p>It was his turn to start.</p>
			<p>“Was he?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, rather! Didn’t you know? Owed money everywhere.”</p>
			<p>“But such a crime as that!”</p>
			<p>“A man with ties and hair like his is capable of anything. You know quite well yourself he is a rotter.”</p>
			<p>“Anyhow you can’t believe Cicely Farmond had anything to do with it?”</p>
			<p>Again she shrugged her shoulders.</p>
			<p>“My dear Ned, I’m not a detective. A pretty face is no proof a woman is a saint. I told you before that there was generally something in the blood in those cases.”</p>
			<p>As he stared at her, it seemed as though her words had indeed rushed back to his memory, and that they hit him hard.</p>
			<p>“People don’t say that, do they?” he asked in a low voice.</p>
			<p>“Really, Ned, I don’t know everything people say: but they are not likely to overlook much in such a case.”</p>
			<p>He stood for a moment in silence.</p>
			<p>“She⁠—I mean they’ve both got to be cleared!” he said, and strode out of the room.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
