<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX: The Yarn</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Yarn</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“I needn’t trouble you with my adventures before I came down here to visit brother Simon,” began the prisoner, “for you know them well enough. It was about a month ago when I turned up at this house one night.”</p>
			<p>“How did you get here?” demanded the superintendent.</p>
			<p>“I did the last bit under the seat of the carriage,” grinned Rattar, “and when we got into the station I hopped out on the wrong side of the train. The way I paid my fare wasn’t bad either, considering I hadn’t half of the fare from London in my pocket when I started⁠—or anything like it. However, the point is I got here and just as I’d come through the gates I had the luck to see both the maids going out. So the coast was clear.</p>
			<p>“Well, I rang the bell and out came Simon⁠—the man who’d got me convicted, and my own brother too, mind you!⁠—looking as smug as the hard-hearted old humbug he was. He got the shock of his life when he saw who it was, but I began gently and I put a proposition to him. I’ll bet none of you will guess what it was!”</p>
			<p>He looked round the company, and Carrington answered:</p>
			<p>“Blackmail of some sort.”</p>
			<p>“You may call it blackmail if you like, but what was the sort? Well, you’d never guess. I was wearing a beard and moustaches then, but I knew if I took them off I’d look so like Simon that no one meeting one of us would know which it was, supposing we were dressed exactly alike and I did Simon’s grunting tricks and all that. And Simon knew it too.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Well, Simon, my dear brother,’ I said to him, ‘I’ll make you a sporting proposition. My idea is to settle down in this old place, and I’m so fond of you I mean to shave, get an outfit just like yours, and give free rein to my affection for you. I’m so fond of you,’ I said, ‘that I know I shan’t be able to keep more than five yards away from you whenever you are walking the streets, and I’ll have to sit in church beside you, Simon. That’s my present programme.’</p>
			<p>“I let that sink in, and then I went on:</p>
			<p>“ ‘Supposing this programme embarrasses you, Simon, well there’s one way out of it, and I leave it to your judgment to say what it is.’</p>
			<p>“Now, mind you, I’d banked on this coming off, for I knew what a stickler Simon was for the respectable and the conventional and all that. Can’t you see the two of us going through the streets together, five yards apart and dressed exactly alike! Wouldn’t the small boys have liked it! That was my only idea in coming down here. I meant no more mischief, I’ll swear to that! Unfortunately, though, I’d got so keen on the scheme that I hadn’t thought of its weak spot.</p>
			<p>“Simon said not a word, but just looked at me⁠—exactly as I’ve been looking at people since I took his place in society. And then he asked me if I was really very hard up. Like a fool I told him the plain truth, that I had inside of five bob in my pockets and that was every penny I owned in the world.</p>
			<p>“He grinned then⁠—I can see him grinning now⁠—and he said:</p>
			<p>“ ‘In that case you’ll have a little difficulty in paying your board and lodging here, and still more in buying clothes. I tell you what I’ll do,’ he said, ‘I’ll buy a ticket back to London for you and leave it with the stationmaster, and that’s every penny you’ll ever get out of me!’</p>
			<p>“I saw he had me, but I wasn’t going off on those terms. I damned him to his face and he tried to shut the door on me. We were talking at the front door all this while, I may mention. I got my foot in the way, and as I was always a bit stronger than Simon, I had that door open after a tussle and then I followed him into the library.</p>
			<p>“I knew the man was hard as flint and never showed mercy to anyone in his life when he had them on toast, and I knew he had me on toast. How was I to get any change out of him? That was what I was wondering as I followed him, and then all at once something⁠—the devil if you like⁠—put the idea into my head. I’d <em>be</em> Simon!”</p>
			<p>He looked round on his audience as though he still relished the memory of that inspiration.</p>
			<p>“The beauty of the idea was that no one would ever dream of suspecting a man of not being himself! They might suspect him of a lot of things, but not of that. I hadn’t thought of the scheme ten seconds before I realised how dead safe it was so long as I kept my head. And I have kept it. No one can deny that!”</p>
			<p>His glance this time challenged a contradiction, but no one spoke. The circle of steadfast eyes and silent lips he seemed to take as a tribute to his address, for he smiled and then went on:</p>
			<p>“Yes, I kept my head from the beginning. I stood talking to him in this very room, he refusing to answer anything except to repeat that he’d buy a ticket to London and leave it with the stationmaster, and I working out the scheme⁠—what to do it with and how to manage afterwards. I knew it was a swinging risk, but against that was a starving certainty, and then I spied that match box and the thing was settled. I got him to look the other way for a moment⁠—and then he was settled. Give me another drink!”</p>
			<p>Carrington got him a drink and he gulped it down, and then turned suddenly on Ned Cromarty.</p>
			<p>“Your damned glass eye has been getting on my nerves long enough!” he exclaimed. “My God, that eye and your habit of hanging people⁠—I’ve had enough of them! Can’t you turn it away from me?”</p>
			<p>“Won’t turn,” said Ned coolly, “spring broken. Get on with your story!”</p>
			<p>Even in his privileged position as prisoner, Rattar seemed disinclined to have trouble with his formidable ex-client. He answered nothing, but turned his shoulder to him and continued:</p>
			<p>“After that was over I set about covering my tracks. The first part was the worst. Before the maids came back I had to get Simon stowed away for the night⁠—no time to bury him then of course, and I had to get into his clothes, shave, and learn the lie of the house and all that. I did it all right and came down to breakfast next morning and passed muster with the servants, and never a suspicion raised!”</p>
			<p>“There was a little,” remarked Carrington, “but never enough.”</p>
			<p>“Not enough was good enough!”</p>
			<p>“I am not quite certain of that,” said Carrington. “However, go on. Your next bunker was the office.”</p>
			<p>The prisoner nodded.</p>
			<p>“It took some nerve,” he said complacently, “and I’m free to confess that to begin with I always had a beastly feeling that someone was watching me and spotting something that didn’t look quite right, but, good Lord, keeping my head the way I kept it, there was nothing to worry about! Who would ever think that the Simon Rattar who walked into his office and grunted at his clerks on Wednesday morning, wasn’t the same Simon Rattar who walked in and grunted on Tuesday morning? And then I had one tremendous pull in knowing all the ropes from old days. Simon was a conservative man, nothing was ever changed⁠—not even the clerks, so I had the whole routine at my fingers. And he was an easy man to imitate too. That was where I scored again. I daresay I have inherited some of the same tricks myself. I know I found them come quite easy⁠—the stare and the silence and the grunts and the rest of them. And then I always had more brains than Simon and could pick up business quicker. You should have heard me making that ass Malcolm Cromarty, and the Farmond girl, and this hangman with the glass eye tell me all about themselves and what their business was, without their ever suspecting they were being pumped! For, mind you, I’d never set eyes on Malcolm Cromarty or the Farmond girl before in my life! No, it wasn’t at the office I had the nastiest time. It was burying the body that night.”</p>
			<p>The boastful smile died off his lips and for a moment he shivered a little.</p>
			<p>“What happened about that?” enquired Carrington keenly.</p>
			<p>Rattar’s voice instinctively fell a little.</p>
			<p>“When I got home that afternoon I found he wasn’t quite dead after all!”</p>
			<p>“That accounts for it!” murmured Carrington.</p>
			<p>“For what?”</p>
			<p>“Your maid heard him moving.”</p>
			<p>The prisoner seemed to have recovered from his passing emotion.</p>
			<p>“And I told her it was a rat, and she swallowed it!” he laughed. “Well, he didn’t move for long, and I had fixed up quite a good scheme for getting him out of the house. A man was to call for old papers. I even did two voices talking in the hall to make the bluff complete! Not being able to get his ring off his finger rather worried me, but I put that right by an advertisement in the paper saying I’d lost it!”</p>
			<p>He was arrested by the look on Carrington’s face.</p>
			<p>“What happened?” he exclaimed. “Do you mean to say that gave me away?”</p>
			<p>“Those superfluous precautions generally give people away.”</p>
			<p>“But how?”</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t matter now. You’ll learn later. What next?”</p>
			<p>“Next?” said Rattar. “Well, I just went on keeping my head and bluffing people⁠—” he broke off, looked at Superintendent Sutherland, and gave a short laugh. “I only lost my nerve a bit once, and that was when the glass-eyed hangman butted in and said he was going to get down a detective. It struck me then it was time I was off⁠—and what’s more, I started!”</p>
			<p>The superintendent’s mouth fell open.</p>
			<p>“You⁠—you weren’t the man⁠—” he began.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” scoffed the prisoner, “I was the man with toothache in that empty carriage. I’d got in at the wrong side after the ticket collector passed and just about twenty seconds before you opened the door. But the sight of your red face made me change my plans, and I was out again before that train started! A bright policeman you are! After that I decided to stick it out and face the music; and I faced it.”</p>
			<p>His mouth shut tight and he sat back in his chair, his eyes travelling round the others as though to mark their unwilling admiration. He certainly saw it in the faces of the two open-eyed policemen, but Cromarty’s was hard and set, and he seemed still to be waiting.</p>
			<p>“You haven’t told us about Sir Reginald yet,” he said.</p>
			<p>Rattar looked at him defiantly.</p>
			<p>“No evidence there,” he said with a cunning shake of his head, “you can go on guessing!”</p>
			<p>“Would you like to smoke a pipe?” asked Carrington suddenly.</p>
			<p>The man’s eyes gleamed.</p>
			<p>“By God, yes!”</p>
			<p>“You can have one if you tell us about Sir Reginald. We’ve got you anyhow, and there will be evidence enough there too when we’ve put it together.”</p>
			<p>The superintendent looked a trifle shocked, but Carrington’s sway over him was by this time evidently unbounded. He coughed an official protest but said nothing.</p>
			<p>The prisoner only hesitated for a moment. He saw Carrington taking out a cigarette, and then he took out his keys and said:</p>
			<p>“This is the key for that drawer. You’ll find my pipe and baccy there. I’ll tell you the rest.” And then he started and exclaimed: “But how the h⁠⸺ did you know I smoked?”</p>
			<p>“At five minutes past nine o’clock last night,” said Carrington, as he handed him his pipe, “I was within three paces of you.”</p>
			<p>The prisoner stared at him with a wry face.</p>
			<p>“You devil!” he murmured, and then added with some philosophy: “After all, I’d sooner be hanged than stop smoking.” And with that he lit his pipe.</p>
			<p>“You want to know about old Cromarty,” he resumed. “Well, I made my first bad break when I carried on a correspondence with him which Simon had begun, not knowing they had had a talk between whiles cancelling the whole thing. You know about it and about the letter Sir Reginald sent me after I’d written. Well, when I got that letter I admit it rattled me a bit. I’ve often wondered since whether he had really suspected anything or whether he would have sooner or later. Anyhow I got it into my head that the game was up if something didn’t happen. And so it happened.”</p>
			<p>“You went and killed him?” said Ned.</p>
			<p>“That’s for you and your glass eye to find out!” snapped the prisoner.</p>
			<p>“Take his pipe away,” said Carrington quietly.</p>
			<p>“Damn it!” cried Rattar, “I’ll tell you, only I’m fed up with that man’s bullying! I put it in a stocking” (he nodded towards the match box) “just as you guessed and I went out to Keldale that night. My God, what a walk that was in the dark! I’d half forgotten the way down to the house and I thought every other tree was a man watching me. I don’t know yet how I got to that library window. I remembered his ways and I thought he’d be sitting up there alone; but it was just a chance, and I’d no idea I’d have the luck to pick a night when he was sleeping in his dressing room. Give me another drink!”</p>
			<p>Carrington promptly brought one and again it vanished almost in a gulp.</p>
			<p>“Well, I saw him through a gap in the curtains and I risked a tap on the glass. My God, how surprised he was to see me standing there! I grinned at him and he let me in, and then⁠—” He broke off and fell forward in his chair with his face in his hands. “This whisky has gone to my head!” he muttered. “You’ve mixed it too damned strong!”</p>
			<p>Ned Cromarty sprang up, his face working. Carrington caught him by the arm.</p>
			<p>“Let’s come away,” he said quietly. “We’ve heard everything necessary. You can’t touch him now.”</p>
			<p>Cromarty let him keep his arm through his as they went to the door.</p>
			<p>“I’ll send a cab up for you in a few minutes,” Carrington added to the superintendent.</p>
			<p>They left the prisoner still sitting muttering into his hands.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
