<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: The Procurator Fiscal</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Procurator Fiscal</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The procurator fiscal breakfasted at 8:30, punctually, and at 8:30 as usual he entered his severely upholstered dining-room and shut the door behind him. The windows looked into a spacious garden with a belt of trees leading up to the house from the gate, and this morning <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, who was a machine for habit, departed in one trifling particular from his invariable routine. Instead of sitting straight down to the business of breakfasting, he stood for a minute or two at the window gazing into the garden, and then he came to the table very thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>No man in that northern county was better known or more widely respected than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar. In person, he was a thickset man of middle height and elderly middle age, with cold steady eyes and grizzled hair. His clean shaved face was chiefly remarkable for the hardness of his tight-shut mouth, and the obstinacy of the chin beneath it. Professionally, he was lawyer to several of the larger landowners and factor on their estates, and lawyer and adviser also to many other people in various stations in life. Officially, he was procurator fiscal for the county, the setter in motion of all criminal processes, and generalissimo, so to speak, of the police; and one way and another, he had the reputation of being a very comfortably well off gentleman indeed.</p>
			<p>As for his abilities, they were undeniably considerable, of the hard, cautious, never-caught-asleep order; and his taciturn manner and way of drinking in everything said to him while he looked at you out of his steady eyes, and then merely nodded and gave a significant little grunt at the end, added immensely to his reputation for profound wisdom. People were able to quote few definite opinions uttered by “Silent Simon,” but any that could be quoted were shrewdness itself.</p>
			<p>He was a bachelor, and indeed, it was difficult for the most fanciful to imagine Silent Simon married. Even in his youth he had not been attracted by the other sex, and his own qualities certainly did not attract them. Not that there was a word to be said seriously against him. Hard and shrewd though he was, his respectability was extreme and his observance of the conventions scrupulous to a fault. He was an elder of the Kirk, a nonsmoker, an abstemious drinker (to be an out and out teetotaler would have been a little too remarkable in those regions for a man of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar’s conventional tastes), and indeed in all respects he trod that sober path that leads to a semipublic funeral and a vast block of granite in the parish kirkyard.</p>
			<p>He had acquired his substantial villa and large garden by a very shrewd bargain a number of years ago, and he lived there with just the decency that his condition in life enjoined, but with not a suspicion of display beyond it. He kept a staff of two competent and respectable girls, just enough to run a house of that size, but only just; and when he wanted to drive abroad he hired a conveyance exactly suitable to the occasion from the most respectable hotel. His life, in short, was ordered to the very best advantage possible.</p>
			<p>Enthusiastic devotion to such an extremely exemplary gentleman was a little difficult, but in his present housemaid, Mary MacLean, he had a girl with a strong Highland strain of fidelity to a master, and an instinctive devotion to his interests, even if his person was hardly the chieftain her heart demanded. She was a soft voiced, anxious looking young woman, almost pretty despite her nervous high strung air, and of a quiet and modest demeanour.</p>
			<p>Soon after her master had begun breakfast, Mary entered the dining-room with an apologetic air, but a conscientious eye.</p>
			<p>“Begging your pardon, sir,” she began, “but I thought I ought to tell you that when cook and me was going out to the concert last night we thought we saw <em>something</em> in the drive.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar looked up at her sharply and fixed his cold eyes on her steadily for a moment, never saying a word. It was exactly his ordinary habit, and she had thought she was used to it by now, yet this morning she felt oddly disconcerted. Then it struck her that perhaps it was the red cut on his chin that gave her this curious feeling. Silent Simon’s hand was as steady as a rock and she never remembered his having cut himself shaving before; certainly not as badly as this.</p>
			<p>“Saw ‘something’?” he repeated gruffly. “What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“It looked like a man, sir, and it seemed to move into the trees almost as quick as we saw it!”</p>
			<p>“Tuts!” muttered Simon.</p>
			<p>“But there was two friends of ours meeting us in the road,” she hurried on, “and they thought they saw a man going in at the gate!”</p>
			<p>Her master seemed a little more impressed.</p>
			<p>“Indeed?” said he.</p>
			<p>“So I thought it was my duty to tell you, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Quite right,” said he.</p>
			<p>“For I felt sure it couldn’t just be a gentleman coming to see you, sir, or he wouldn’t have gone into the trees.”</p>
			<p>“Of course not,” he agreed briefly. “Nobody came to see me.”</p>
			<p>Mary looked at him doubtfully and hesitated for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Didn’t you even hear anything, sir?” she asked in a lowered voice.</p>
			<p>Her master’s quick glance made her jump.</p>
			<p>“Why?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>“Because, sir, I found footsteps in the gravel this morning⁠—where it’s soft with the rain, sir, just under the library window.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar looked first hard at her and then at his plate. For several seconds he answered nothing, and then he said:</p>
			<p>“I did hear someone.”</p>
			<p>There was something both in his voice and in his eye as he said this that was not quite like the usual Simon Rattar. Mary began to feel a sympathetic thrill.</p>
			<p>“Did you look out of the window, sir?” she asked in a hushed voice.</p>
			<p>Her master nodded and pursed his lips.</p>
			<p>“But you didn’t see him, sir?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said he.</p>
			<p>“Who could it have been, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I have been wondering,” he said, and then he threw a sudden glance at her that made her hurry for the door. It was not that it was an angry look, but that it was what she called so “queer-like.”</p>
			<p>Just as she went out she noted another queer-like circumstance. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had stretched out his hand towards the toast rack while he spoke. The toast stuck between the bars, and she caught a glimpse of an angry twitch that upset the rack with a clatter. Never before had she seen the master do a thing of that kind.</p>
			<p>A little later the library bell called her. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had finished breakfast and was seated beside the fire with a bundle of legal papers on a small table beside him, just as he always sat, absorbed in work, before he started for his office. The master’s library impressed Mary vastly. The furniture was so substantial, new-looking, and conspicuous for the shininess of the wood and the brightness of the red morocco seats to the chairs. And it was such a tidy room⁠—no litter of papers or books, nothing ever out of place, no sign even of pipe, tobacco jar, cigarette or cigar. The only concession to the vices were the ornate ash tray and the massive globular glass match box on the square table in the middle of the room, and they were manifestly placed there for the benefit of visitors merely. Even they, Mary thought, were admirable as ornaments, and she was concerned to note that there was no nice redheaded bundle of matches in the glass match box this morning. What had become of them she could not imagine, but she resolved to repair this blemish as soon as the master had left the house.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want you to go gossiping about this fellow who came into the garden, last night,” he began.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, sir!” said she.</p>
			<p>Simon shot her a glance that seemed compounded of doubt and warning.</p>
			<p>“As procurator fiscal, it is my business to inquire into such affairs. I’ll see to it.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir; I know,” said she. “It seemed so impudent like of the man coming into the fiscal’s garden of all places!”</p>
			<p>Simon grunted. It was his characteristic reply when no words were absolutely necessary.</p>
			<p>“That’s all,” said he, “don’t gossip! Remember, if we want to catch the man, the quieter we keep the better.”</p>
			<p>Mary went out, impressed with the warning, but still more deeply impressed with something else. Gossip with cook of course was not to be counted as gossip in the prohibited sense, and when she returned to the kitchen, she unburdened her Highland heart.</p>
			<p>“The master’s no himsel’!” she said. “I tell you, Janet, never have I seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar look the way he looked at breakfast, nor yet the way he looked in the library!”</p>
			<p>Cook was a practical person and apt to be a trifle unsympathetic.</p>
			<p>“He couldna be bothered with your blethering most likely!” said she.</p>
			<p>“Oh, it wasna that!” said Mary very seriously. “Just think yoursel’ how would you like to be watched through the window at the dead of night as you were sitting in your chair? The master’s feared of yon man, Janet!”</p>
			<p>Even Janet was a little impressed by her solemnity.</p>
			<p>“It must have taken something to make silent Simon feared!” said she.</p>
			<p>Mary’s voice fell.</p>
			<p>“It’s my opinion, the master knows more than he let on to me. The thought that came into my mind when he was talking to me was just⁠—‘The man feels he’s being <em>watched</em>!’ ”</p>
			<p>“Oh, get along wi’ you and your Hieland fancies!” said cook, but she said it a little uncomfortably.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
