<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">News</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Even in that scattered countryside of long distances by windy roads, with scarcely ever a village as a focus for gossip, news flew fast. The next morning Ned Cromarty had set out with his gun towards a certain snipe marsh, but while he was still on the high road he met a man on a bicycle. The man had heard strange news and stopped to pass it on, and the next moment Ned was hurrying as fast as his long legs could take him back to the castle.</p>
			<p>He saw his sister only for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Lilian!” he cried, and the sound of his voice made her start and stare at him. “There’s a story that Sir Reginald was murdered last night.”</p>
			<p>“Murdered!” she repeated in a low incredulous voice. “Ridiculous, Ned! Who told you?”</p>
			<p>“I only know the man by sight, but he seemed to believe it right enough.”</p>
			<p>“But how⁠—who did it?”</p>
			<p>Her brother shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Don’t know. He couldn’t tell me. My God, I hope it’s not true! I’m off to see.”</p>
			<p>A few minutes later he was driving his mare headlong for his kinsman’s house. It had begun to rain by this time, and the mournful wreaths of vapour that swept over the bare, late autumnal country and drove in fine drops against his face sent his spirits down ever lower as the mare splashed her way along the empty miles of road. The melancholy thrumming of the telegraph wires droned by his side all the while, and as this dirge waxed for the moment as they passed each post, his eye would glance grimly at those gaunt poles. Very suitable and handy for a certain purpose, they struck him⁠—if by any possibility this tale were true.</p>
			<p>He knew the worst when he saw Bisset at the door.</p>
			<p>“Thank God, you’ve come, sir,” said the butler devoutly. “The master would have expected it of you.”</p>
			<p>“How did it happen? What does it mean? Do you mean to say it’s actually <i>true</i>?”</p>
			<p>Bisset shook his head sombrely.</p>
			<p>“Ower true,” said he. “But as to how it happened, come in to the library, sir. It was in his ain library he was killed! The Fiscal and Superintendent is there now and we’ve been going into the circumstantial evidence. Most extraordinary mystery, sir⁠—most extraordinary!”</p>
			<p>In the library they found Simon Rattar and Superintendent Sutherland. The Superintendent was a big burly red-moustached man; his face a certificate of honesty, but hardly of the intellectual type. Ned looked round him apprehensively for something else, but Bisset said:</p>
			<p>“We’ve taken him upstairs, sir.”</p>
			<p>For a moment as he looked round that spacious comfortable room with its long bookcases and easy chairs, and on the tables and mantel-piece a hundred little mementoes of its late owner, the laird of Stanesland was unable to speak a word, and the others respected his silence. Then he pulled himself together sharply and asked:</p>
			<p>“How did it happen? Tell me all about it!”</p>
			<p>Perhaps there might have been for a moment in Simon’s eye a hint that this demand was irregular, but the superintendent evidently took no exception to the intrusion. Besides being a considerable local magnate and a kinsman of the dead baronet, Stanesland had a forcible personality that stood no gainsaying.</p>
			<p>“Well, sir,” said the superintendent, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar could perhaps explain best⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Explain yourself, Sutherland,” said Simon briefly.</p>
			<p>The superintendent pointed to a spot on the carpet a few paces from the door.</p>
			<p>“We found Sir Reginald lying there,” he said. “His skull had been fairly cracked, just over the right eye, sir. The blow would have been enough to kill him I’d think myself, but there were marks in his neck too, seeming to show that the murderer had strangled him afterwards to make sure. However, we’ll be having the medical evidence soon. But there’s no doubt that was the way of it, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar agrees with me.”</p>
			<p>The lawyer merely nodded.</p>
			<p>“What was it done with?”</p>
			<p>The superintendent pursed his lips and shook his head.</p>
			<p>“That’s one of the mysterious things in the case, sir. There’s no sign of any weapon in the room. The fire irons are far too light. But it was an unco’ heavy blow. There was little bleeding, but the skull was fair cracked.”</p>
			<p>“Was anything stolen?”</p>
			<p>“That’s another mystery, sir. Nothing was stolen anywhere in the house and there was no papers in a mess like, or anything.”</p>
			<p>“When was he found?” asked Ned.</p>
			<p>“Seven-fifty this morning, sir,” said Bisset. “The housemaid finding the door lockit came to me. I knew the dining-room key fitted this door too, so I opened it⁠—and there he lay.”</p>
			<p>“All night, without any one knowing he hadn’t gone to bed?”</p>
			<p>“That’s the unfortunate thing, sir,” said the superintendent. “It seems that Sir Reginald had arranged to sleep in his dressing room as he was going to be sitting up late reading.”</p>
			<p>“Murderer must have known that,” put in Simon.</p>
			<p>“Almost looks like it,” agreed the superintendent.</p>
			<p>“And nobody in the house heard or saw anything?”</p>
			<p>“Nobody, sir,” said the superintendent.</p>
			<p>“That’s their statement,” added the lawyer in his driest voice.</p>
			<p>“Was anybody sitting up late?”</p>
			<p>“Nobody admits it,” said the lawyer, again very drily.</p>
			<p>“Thirteen,” said Bisset softly.</p>
			<p>They turned towards him, but it seemed that he was talking to himself. He was, in fact, quietly taking measurements with a tape.</p>
			<p>“Go on,” said Cromarty briefly.</p>
			<p>“Well, sir,” said the superintendent. “The body was found near the door as I was pointing out, but it’s a funny thing that a small table had been upset apparently, and Bisset tells us that that table stood near the window.”</p>
			<p>“Humph,” grunted Simon sceptically.</p>
			<p>“I’m quite sure of it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar,” said Bisset confidently, looking round from his work of measurement.</p>
			<p>“No positive proof it was upset,” said the lawyer.</p>
			<p>“Did you find it upset?” asked Ned.</p>
			<p>The lawyer shook his head emphatically and significantly, and the superintendent agreed.</p>
			<p>“No, it was standing just where it is now near the wall.”</p>
			<p>“Then why do you think it was upset?”</p>
			<p>“I picked up yon bits of sealing wax and yon piece of India rubber,” said Bisset, looking round again. “I know they were on the wee table yesterday and I found them under the curtain in the morning and the table moved over to the wall. It follows that the table has been cowpit and then set up again in another place, and the other things on it put back. Is that not a fair deduction, sir?”</p>
			<p>Ned nodded thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“Seems to me so,” he said.</p>
			<p>“It seems likely enough,” the superintendent also agreed. “And if that’s the case there would seem to have been some kind of ongoings near the window.”</p>
			<p>The Procurator Fiscal still seemed unconvinced.</p>
			<p>“Nothing to go on. No proper evidence. It leads nowhere definitely,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Well now,” continued the superintendent, “the question is⁠—how did the murderer get into the room? The door was found locked and the key had been taken away, so whether he had locked it from the inside or the outside we can’t tell. There’s small chance of finding the key, I doubt, for a key’s a thing easy hidden away.”</p>
			<p>“So he might have come in by the door and then left by the door and locked it after him,” said Ned. “Or he might have come in by the window, locked the door and gone out by the window. Or he might have come in by the window and gone out by the door, locking it after him. Those are all the chances, aren’t they?”</p>
			<p>“Indeed, that seems to be them all,” said the superintendent with a note of admiration for this clear exposition that seemed to indicate he was better himself at details than deductions.</p>
			<p>“And now what about the window? Was that open or shut or what?”</p>
			<p>“Shut but not snibbed, sir.”</p>
			<p>Ned turned to Bisset.</p>
			<p>“Did Sir Reginald ever forget to snib the windows, supposing one happened to be open?”</p>
			<p>“Practically never, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Last thing before he left the room, I suppose?” said the lawyer.</p>
			<p>The butler hesitated.</p>
			<p>“I suppose so, sir,” he admitted, “but of course I was never here to see.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly!” said Simon. “Therefore one can draw no conclusions as to whether the window had been standing all the time just as it is now, or whether it had been opened and shut again from the outside; seeing that Sir Reginald was presumably killed before his usual time for looking to the windows.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a bit!” said Ned. “I was assuming a window had been open. But were the windows fastened before Sir Reginald came in to sit here last thing?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly they were that,” said the butler emphatically.</p>
			<p>“It was a mild night, he might have opened one himself,” replied the Procurator Fiscal. “Or supposing the man had come in and left again by the door, what’s more likely than that he unsnibbed the window to make people think he had come that way?”</p>
			<p>“He would surely have left it wide open,” objected Ned.</p>
			<p>“Might have thought that too obvious,” replied the lawyer, “or might have been afraid of the noise. Unsnibbing would be quite enough to suggest entry that way.”</p>
			<p>Ned turned his keen eye hard on him.</p>
			<p>“What’s your own theory then?”</p>
			<p>“I’ve none,” grunted Simon. “No definite evidence one way or the other. Mere guesses are no use.”</p>
			<p>Ned walked to the window and looked at it carefully. Then he threw it up and looked out into the garden.</p>
			<p>“Of course you’ve looked for footsteps underneath?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Naturally,” said Simon. “But it’s a hard gravel path and grass beyond. One could fancy one saw traces, but no definite evidence.”</p>
			<p>The window was one of three together, with stone mullions between. They were long windows reaching down nearly to the level of the floor, so that entrance that way was extremely easy if one of them were open. Cromarty got out and stood on the sill examining the middle sash.</p>
			<p>Simon regarded him with a curious caustic look for a moment in his eye.</p>
			<p>“Looking for finger marks?” he enquired.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Ned. “Did you look for them?”</p>
			<p>For a single instant the Procurator Fiscal seemed a little taken aback. Then he grunted with a half laugh:</p>
			<p>“Don’t believe much in them.”</p>
			<p>“Experienced criminals, that’s been convicted before, frequently wears gloves for to prevent their finger prints being spotted,” said the learned Bisset.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar shot him a quick ambiguous glance, and then his eyes assumed their ordinary cold look and he said:</p>
			<p>“No evidence anybody ever opened that window from the outside. If they had, Sir Reginald would have heard them.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Ned, getting back into the room, “there are no finger marks anyhow.”</p>
			<p>“The body being found near the door certainly seems to be in favour of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar’s opinion,” observed the superintendent.</p>
			<p>“I thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had formed no opinion yet,” said Cromarty.</p>
			<p>“No more I have,” grunted the lawyer.</p>
			<p>The superintendent looked a trifle perplexed.</p>
			<p>“Before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty had come in, sir, I understood you for to say everything pointed to the man having come in by the door and hit Sir Reginald on the head as he came to see who it was when he heard him outside.”</p>
			<p>“I merely suggested that,” said Simon Rattar sharply. “It fits the facts, but there’s no definite evidence yet.”</p>
			<p>Ned Cromarty had turned and was frowning out of the window. Now he wheeled quickly and exclaimed:</p>
			<p>“If the murderer came in through the window while Sir Reginald was in the room, either the window was standing open or Sir Reginald opened it for him! Did Sir Reginald ever sit with his window open late at night at this time of year?”</p>
			<p>“Never once, sir,” said Bisset confidently. “He likit fresh air outside fine but never kept his windies open much unless the weather was vera propitious.”</p>
			<p>“Then,” said Ned, “why should Sir Reginald have opened the window of his own accord to a stranger at the dead of night?”</p>
			<p>“Exactly!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. “Thing seems absurd. He’d never do it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s my own opinion likewise, sir,” put in Bisset.</p>
			<p>“It’s only common sense,” added the superintendent.</p>
			<p>“Then how came the window to be unfastened?” demanded Ned.</p>
			<p>“I’ve suggested a reason,” said Simon.</p>
			<p>“As a blind? Sounds to me damned thin.”</p>
			<p>Simon Rattar turned away from him with an air that suggested that he thought it time to indicate distinctly that he was in charge of the case and not the laird of Stanesland.</p>
			<p>“That’s all we can do just now, Sutherland,” he said. “No use disturbing the household any longer at present.”</p>
			<p>Cromarty stepped up to him suddenly and asked:</p>
			<p>“Tell me honestly! Do you suspect anybody?”</p>
			<p>Simon shook his head decidedly.</p>
			<p>“No sufficient evidence yet. Good morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty.”</p>
			<p>Ned was following him to the door, his lips compressed and his eyes on the floor, when Bisset touched his arm and beckoned him back.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, sir,” said he, “but could you not manage just to stop on for a wee bit yet?”</p>
			<p>Ned hesitated.</p>
			<p>“They won’t be wanting visitors, Bisset.”</p>
			<p>“They needn’t know if you don’t want them to, sir. Lady Cromarty is shut up in her room, and the others are keeping out of the way. If you wouldn’t mind my giving you a little cold luncheon in my sitting room, sir, I’d like to have your help. I’m making a few sma’ bits of investigation on my own. You’re one of the family, sir, and I know you’ll be wanting to find out who killed the master.”</p>
			<p>Ned’s eye flashed suddenly.</p>
			<p>“By God, I’ll never rest in this world or the next till I do! All right, I’ll wait for a bit.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
