<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Heir</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>At 9.45 precisely <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar arrived at his office, just as he had arrived every morning since his clerks could remember. He nodded curtly as usual to his head clerk, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison, and went into his room. His letters were always laid out on his desk and from twenty minutes to half an hour were generally spent by him in running through them. Then he would ring for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison and begin to deal with the business of the day. But on this morning the bell went within twelve minutes, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison (a most precise person) noted on the clock.</p>
			<p>“Bring the letter book,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. “And the business ledger.”</p>
			<p>“Letter book and business ledger?” repeated <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison, looking a little surprised.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar nodded.</p>
			<p>The head clerk turned away and then paused and glanced at the bundle of papers <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had brought back with him. He had expected these to be dealt with first thing.</p>
			<p>“About this Thomson business⁠—” he began.</p>
			<p>“It can wait.”</p>
			<p>The lawyer’s manner was peremptory and the clerk fetched the letter book and ledger. These contained, between them, a record of all the recent business of the firm, apart from public business and the affairs of one large estate. What could be the reason for such a comprehensive examination, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison could not divine, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar never gave reasons unless he chose, and the clerk who would venture to ask him was not to be found on the staff of Silent Simon.</p>
			<p>In a minute or two the head clerk returned with the books. This time he was wearing his spectacles and his first glance through them at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar gave him an odd sensation. The lawyer’s mouth was as hard set and his eyes were as steady as ever. Yet something about his expression seemed a little unusual. Some unexpected business had turned up to disturb him, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison felt sure; and indeed, this seemed certain from his request for the letter book and ledger. He now noticed also the cut on his chin, a sure sign that something had interrupted the orderly tenor of Simon Rattar’s life, if ever there was one. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison tried to guess whose business could have taken such a turn as to make Silent Simon cut himself with his razor, but though he had many virtues, imagination was not among them and he had to confess that it was fairly beyond James Ison.</p>
			<p>And yet, curiously enough, his one remark to a fellow clerk was not unlike the comment of the imaginative Mary MacLean.</p>
			<p>“The boss has a kin’ of unusual look to-day. There was something kin’ of suspicious in that eye of his⁠—rather as though he thought someone was watching him.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had been busy with the books for some twenty minutes when his head clerk returned.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Malcolm Cromarty to see you, sir,” he said.</p>
			<p>Silent Simon looked at him hard, and it was evident to his clerk that his mind had been extraordinarily absorbed, for he simply repeated in a curious way:</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <em>Malcolm</em> Cromarty?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison, and then as even this seemed scarcely to be comprehended, he added, “Sir Reginald’s cousin.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, of course!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. “Well, show him in.”</p>
			<p>The young man who entered was evidently conscious of being a superior person. From the waviness of his hair and the studied negligence of his tie (heliotrope with a design in old gold), it seemed probable that he had literary or artistic claims to be superior to the herd. And from the deference with which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ison had pronounced his name and his own slightly condescending manner, it appeared that he felt himself in other respects superior to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. He was of medium height, slender, and dark-haired. His features were remarkably regular, and though his face was somewhat small, there could be no doubt that he was extremely good looking, especially to a woman’s eye, who would be more apt than a fellow man to condone something a little supercilious in his smile.</p>
			<p>The attire of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Malcolm Cromarty was that of the man of fashion dressed for the country, with the single exception of the tie which intimated to the discerning that here was no young man of fashion merely, but likewise a young man of ideas. That he had written, or at least was going to write, or else that he painted or was about to paint, was quite manifest. The indications, however, were not sufficiently pronounced to permit one to suspect him of fiddling, or even of being about to fiddle.</p>
			<p>This young gentleman’s manner as he shook hands with the lawyer and then took a chair was on the surface cheerful and politely condescending. Yet after his first greeting, and when he was seated under Simon’s inscrutable eye, there stole into his own a hint of quite another emotion. If ever an eye revealed apprehension it was Malcolm Cromarty’s at that instant.</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, here I am again, you see,” said he with a little laugh; but it was not quite a spontaneous laugh.</p>
			<p>“I see, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty,” said Simon laconically.</p>
			<p>“You have been expecting to hear from me before, I suppose,” the young man went on, “but the fact is I’ve had an idea for a story and I’ve been devilish busy sketching it out.”</p>
			<p>Simon grunted and gave a little nod. One would say that he was studying his visitor with exceptional attention.</p>
			<p>“Ideas come to one at the most inconvenient times,” the young author explained with a smile, and yet with a certain hurried utterance not usually associated with smiles, “one just has to shoot the bird when he happens to come over your head, don’t you know, you can’t send in beaters after that kind of fowl, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. And when he does come out, there you are! You have to make hay while the sun shines.”</p>
			<p>Again the lawyer nodded, and again he made no remark. The apprehension in his visitor’s eye increased, his smile died away, and suddenly he exclaimed:</p>
			<p>“For God’s sake, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, say something! I meant honestly to pay you back⁠—I felt sure I could sell that last thing of mine before now, but not a word yet from the editor I sent it to!”</p>
			<p>Still there came only a guarded grunt from Simon and the young man went on with increasing agitation.</p>
			<p>“You won’t give me away to Sir Reginald, will you? He’s been damned crusty with me lately about money matters, as it is. If you make me desperate⁠—!” He broke off and gazed dramatically into space for a moment, and then less dramatically at his lawyer.</p>
			<p>Silent Simon was proverbially cautious, but it seemed to his visitor that his demeanour this morning exceeded all reasonable limits. For nearly a minute he answered absolutely nothing, and then he said very slowly and deliberately:</p>
			<p>“I think it would be better, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, if you gave me a brief, explicit statement of how you got into this mess.”</p>
			<p>“Dash it, you know too well⁠—” began Cromarty.</p>
			<p>“It would make you realise your own position more clearly,” interrupted the lawyer. “You want me to assist you, I take it?”</p>
			<p>“Rather⁠—if you will!”</p>
			<p>“Well then, please do as I ask you. You had better start at the beginning of your relations with Sir Reginald.”</p>
			<p>Malcolm Cromarty’s face expressed surprise, but the lawyer’s was distinctly less severe, and he began readily enough:</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, as you know, my cousin Charles Cromarty died about 18 months ago and I became the heir to the baronetcy⁠—” he broke off and asked, “Do you mean you want me to go over all that?”</p>
			<p>Simon nodded, and he went on:</p>
			<p>“Sir Reginald was devilish good at first⁠—in his own patronising way, let me stay at Keldale as often and as long as I liked, made me an allowance and so on; but there was always this fuss about my taking up something a little more conventional than literature. Ha, ha!” The young man laughed in a superior way and then looked apprehensively at the other. “But I suppose you agree with Sir Reginald?”</p>
			<p>Simon pursed his lips and made a non-committal sound.</p>
			<p>“Well, anyhow, he wanted me to be called to the Bar or something of that kind, and then there was a fuss about money⁠—his ideas of an allowance are rather old fashioned, as you know. And then you were good enough to help me with that loan, and⁠—well, that’s all, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had been listening with extreme attention. He now nodded, and a smile for a moment seemed to light his chilly eyes.</p>
			<p>“I see that you quite realise your position, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Realise it!” cried the young man. “My God, I’m in a worse hole⁠—” he broke off abruptly.</p>
			<p>“Worse than you have admitted to me?” said Simon quickly and again with a smile in his eye.</p>
			<p>Malcolm Cromarty hesitated, “Sir Reginald is so damned narrow! If he wants to drive me to the devil⁠—well, let him! But I say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, what are you going to do?”</p>
			<p>For some moments Simon said nothing. At length he answered:</p>
			<p>“I shall not press for repayment at present.”</p>
			<p>His visitor rose with a sigh of relief and as he said good-bye his condescending manner returned as readily as it had gone.</p>
			<p>“Good morning and many thanks,” said he, and then hesitated for an instant. “You couldn’t let me have a very small cheque, just to be going on with, could you?”</p>
			<p>“Not this morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty’s look of despair returned.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he cried darkly as he strode to the door, “people who treat a man in my position like this are responsible for⁠—er⁠—!” The banging of the door left their precise responsibility in doubt.</p>
			<p>Simon Rattar gazed after him with an odd expression. It seemed to contain a considerable infusion of complacency. And then he rang for his clerk.</p>
			<p>“Get me the Cromarty estate letter book,” he commanded.</p>
			<p>The book was brought and this time he had about ten minutes to himself before the clerk entered again.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty of Stanesland to see you, sir,” he announced.</p>
			<p>This announcement seemed to set the lawyer thinking hard. Then in his abrupt way he said:</p>
			<p>“Show him in.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
