<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>XXXVI</h2>
				<h3>THE WALKING STICK</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Had there been, next morning, any curious eyes to watch the conduct of the gentleman who had come to rent a sporting estate, they would probably have surmised that he had found something to please his fancy strangely, and yet that some perplexity still persisted. They would also have put him down as a much more excitable, and even demonstrative, young man than they had imagined. On a lonely stretch of shore hard by the little town he paced for nearly an hour, his face a record of the debate within, and his cane gesticulating at intervals.</p>
			<p>Of a sudden he stopped dead and his lips moved in a murmured ejaculation, and then after standing stock still for some minutes, he murmured again:</p>
			<p>“Ten to one on it!”</p>
			<p>His cane had been stationary during this pause. Now he raised it once more, but this time with careful attention. It was a light bamboo with a silver head. He looked at it thoughtfully, bent it this way and that, and then drove it into the sand and pressed it down. Though to the ordinary eye a very chaste and appropriate walking stick for such a gentleman as Mr. Carrington, the result of these tests seemed to dissatisfy him. He shook his head, and then with an air of resolution set out for the town.</p>
			<p>A little later he entered a shop where a number of walking sticks were on view and informed the proprietor that he desired to purchase something more suitable for the country than the cane he carried. In fact, his taste seemed now to run to the very opposite extreme, for the points on which he insisted were length, stiffness, and a long and if possible somewhat pointed ferule. At last he found one to his mind, left his own cane to be sent down to the hotel, and walked out with his new purchase.</p>
			<p>His next call was at Mr. Simon Rattar’s villa. This morning he approached it without any of the curious shyness he had exhibited on the occasion of his recent visit. His advance was conducted openly up the drive and in an erect posture, and he crossed the gravel space boldly, and even jauntily, while his ring was firmness itself. Mary answered the bell, and her pleasure at seeing so soon again the sympathetic gentleman with the eyeglass was a tribute to his tact.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Mary,” said he, with an air that combined very happily the courtesy of a gentleman with the freedom of an old friend, “Mr. Rattar is at his office, I presume.”</p>
			<p>She said that he was, but this time the visitor exhibited neither surprise nor disappointment.</p>
			<p>“I thought he would be,” he confessed confidentially, “and I have come to see whether I couldn’t do something to help you to get at the bottom of these troublesome goings on. Anything fresh happened?”</p>
			<p>“The master was out in the garden again last night, sir!” said she.</p>
			<p>“Was he really?” cried Mr. Carrington. “By Jove, how curious! We really must look into that: in fact, I’ve got an idea I want you to help me with. By the way, it sounds an odd question to ask about Mr. Rattar, but have you ever seen any sign of a pipe or tobacco in the house?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, never indeed!” said she. “The master has never been a smoking gentleman. Quite against smoking he’s always been, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Ever since you have known him?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, and before that, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” observed Mr. Carrington in a manner that suggested nothing whatever. “Well, Mary, I want this morning to have a look round the garden.”</p>
			<p>Her eyes opened.</p>
			<p>“Because the master walks there at nights?”</p>
			<p>He nodded confidentially.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—but if he was to know you’d been interfering, sir⁠—I mean what he’d think was interfering, sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“He shan’t know,” he assured her. “At least not if you’ll do what I tell you. I want you to go now and have a nice quiet talk with cook for half an hour⁠—half an hour by the kitchen clock, Mary. If you don’t look out of the window, you won’t know that I’m in the garden, and then nobody can blame you whatever happens. We haven’t mentioned the word ‘garden’ between us⁠—so you are out of it! Remember that.”</p>
			<p>He smiled so pleasantly that Mary smiled back.</p>
			<p>“I’ll remember, sir,” said she. “And cook is to be kept talking in the kitchen?”</p>
			<p>“You’ve tumbled to it exactly, Mary. If neither of you see me, neither of you know anything at all.”</p>
			<p>She got a last glimpse of his sympathetic smile as she closed the door, and then she went faithfully to the kitchen for her talk with cook. It was quite a pleasant gossip at first, but half an hour is a long time to keep talking, when one has been asked not to stop sooner, and it so happened, moreover, that cook was somewhat busy that morning and began at length to indicate distinctly that unless her friend had some matter of importance to communicate she would regard further verbiage with disfavour. At this juncture Mary decided that twenty minutes was practically as good as half an hour, and the conversation ceased.</p>
			<p>Passing out of the kitchen regions, Mary glanced towards a distant window, hesitated, and then came to another decision. Mr. Carrington must surely have left the garden now, so there was no harm in peeping out. She went to the window and peeped.</p>
			<p>It was only a two minutes’ peep, for Mr. Carrington had not left the garden, and at the end of that space of time something very disturbing happened. But it was long enough to make her marvel greatly at her sympathetic friend’s method of solving the riddle of the master’s conduct. When she first saw him, he seemed to be smoothing the earth in one of the flower beds with his foot. Then he moved on a few paces, stopped, and drove his walking stick hard into the bed. She saw him lean on it to get it further in and apparently twist it about a little. And then he withdrew it again and was in the act of smoothing the place when she saw him glance sharply towards the gate, and the next instant leap behind a bush. Simultaneously the hum of a motor car fell on her ear, and Mary was out of the room and speeding upstairs.</p>
			<p>She heard the car draw up before the house and listened for the front door bell, but the door opened without a ring and she marvelled and trembled afresh. That the master should return in a car at this hour of the morning seemed surely to be connected with the sin she had connived at. It swelled into a crime as she held her breath and listened. She wished devoutly she had never set eyes on the insinuating Mr. Carrington.</p>
			<p>But there came no call for her, or no ringing of any bell; merely sounds of movement in the hall below, heard through the thrumming of the waiting car. And then the front door opened and shut again and she ventured to the window. It was a little open and she could hear her master speak to the chauffeur as he got in. He was now wearing, she noticed, a heavy overcoat. A moment more and he was off again, down the drive, and out through the gates. When she remembered to look again for her sympathetic friend, he was quietly driving his walking stick once more into a flower bed.</p>
			<p>About ten minutes afterwards the front door bell rang and there stood Mr. Carrington again. His eye seemed strangely bright, she thought, but his manner was calm and soothing as ever.</p>
			<p>“I noticed Mr. Rattar return,” he said, “and I thought I would like to make sure that it was all right, before I left. I trust, Mary, that you have got into no trouble on my account.”</p>
			<p>She thought it was very kind of him to enquire.</p>
			<p>“The master was only just in and out again,” she assured him.</p>
			<p>“He came to get his overcoat, I noticed,” he remarked.</p>
			<p>Mr. Carrington’s powers of observation struck her as very surprising for such an easy-going gentleman.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, that was all.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m very glad it was all right,” he smiled and began to turn away. “By the way,” he asked, turning back, “did he tell you where he is going to now?”</p>
			<p>“He didn’t see me, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You didn’t happen to overhear him giving any directions to the chauffeur, did you? I noticed you at an open window.”</p>
			<p>For the first time Mary’s sympathetic friend began to make her feel a trifle uncomfortable. His eyes seemed to be everywhere.</p>
			<p>“I thought I heard him say ‘Keldale House,’ ” she confessed.</p>
			<p>“Really!” he exclaimed and seemed to muse for a moment. In fact, he appeared to be still musing as he walked away.</p>
			<p>Mary began to wonder very seriously whether Mr. Carrington was going to prove merely a fresh addition to the disquieting mysteries of that house.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
