<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Man from the West</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar’s second visitor was of a different type. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty of Stanesland stood about six feet two and had nothing artistic in his appearance, being a lean strapping man in the neighbourhood of forty, with a keen, thin, weather-beaten face chiefly remarkable for its straight sharp nose, compressed lips, reddish eye-brows, puckered into a slight habitual frown, and the fact that the keen look of the whole was expressed by only one of his eyes, the other being a good imitation but unmistakeably glass. The whole effect of the face, however, was singularly pleasing to the discerning critic. An out of door, reckless, humorous, honest personality was stamped on every line of it and every movement of the man. When he spoke his voice had a marked tinge of the twang of the wild west that sounded a little oddly on the lips of a country gentleman in these northern parts. He wore an open flannel collar, a shooting coat, well cut riding breeches and immaculate leather leggings, finished off by a most substantial pair of shooting boots. Unlike <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Malcolm Cromarty, he evidently looked upon his visit as expected.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar,” said he, throwing his long form into the clients’ chair as he spoke. “Well, I guess you’ve got some good advice for me this morning.”</p>
			<p>Simon Rattar was proverbially cautious, but to-day his caution struck his visitor as quite remarkable.</p>
			<p>“Um,” he grunted. “Advice, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty? Umph!”</p>
			<p>“Don’t trouble beating about the bush,” said the tall man. “I’ve been figuring things out myself and so far as I can see, it comes to this:⁠—that loan from Sir Reginald put me straight in the meantime, but I’ve got to cut down expense all round to keep straight, and I’ve got to pay him back. Of course you know his way when it’s one of the clan he’s dealing with. ‘My dear Ned, no hurry whatever. If you send my heir a cheque some day after I’m gone it will have the added charm of surprise!’ Well, that’s damned decent, but hardly business. I want to get the whole thing off my chest. Got the statement made up?”</p>
			<p>Simon shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Very sorry, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty. Haven’t had time yet.”</p>
			<p>“Hell!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, though in a cheerful voice, and then added with an engaging smile, “Pardon me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. I’m trying to get educated out of strong language, but, Lord, at my time of life it’s not so damned⁠—I mean dashed easy!”</p>
			<p>Even Simon Rattar’s features relaxed for an instant into a smile.</p>
			<p>“And who is educating you?” he enquired.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty looked a little surprised.</p>
			<p>“Who but the usual lady? Gad, I’ve told you before of my sister’s well meant efforts. It’s a stiff job making a retired cow puncher into a high grade laird. However, I can smoke without spitting now, which is a step on the road towards being a Lord Chesterfield.”</p>
			<p>He smiled humorously, stretched out his long legs and added:</p>
			<p>“It’s a nuisance, your not having that statement ready. When I’ve got to do business I like pushing it through quick. That’s an American habit I don’t mean to get rid of, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar nodded his approval.</p>
			<p>“Certainly not,” said he.</p>
			<p>“I’ve put down my car,” his visitor continued. “Drive a buggy now⁠—beg its pardon, a trap, and a devilish nice little mare I’ve got in her too. In fact, there are plenty of consolations for whatever you have to do in this world. I’m only sorry for my sister’s sake that I have to draw in my horns a bit. Women like a bit of a splash⁠—at least judging from the comparatively little I know of ’em.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Cromarty doesn’t complain, I hope?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I think she’s beginning to see the necessity for reform. You see, when both my civilised elder brothers died⁠—” he broke off, and then added: “But you know the whole story.”</p>
			<p>“I would⁠—er⁠—like to refresh my memory,” said Simon; and there seemed to be a note of interest and almost of eagerness in his voice that appeared to surprise his visitor afresh.</p>
			<p>“First time I ever heard of your memory needing refreshing!” laughed his visitor. “Well, you know how I came back from the wild and woolly west and tried to make a comfortable home for Lilian. We were neither of us likely to marry at our time of life, and there were just the two of us left, and we’d both of us knocked about quite long enough on our own, and so why not settle down together in the old place and be comfortable? At least that’s how it struck me. Of course, as you know, we hadn’t met for so long that we were practically strangers and she knew the ways of civilisation better than me, and I gave her a pretty free hand in setting up the establishment. I don’t blame her, mind you, for setting the pace a bit too fast to last. My own blamed fault entirely. However, we aren’t in a very deep hole, thank the Lord. In fact if I hadn’t got to pay Sir Reginald back the £1,200 it would be all right, so far I can figure out. But I want your exact statement, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, and as quick as you can let me have it.”</p>
			<p>Simon nodded and grunted.</p>
			<p>“You’ll get it.” And then he added: “I think I can assure you there is nothing to be concerned about.”</p>
			<p>Ned Cromarty smiled and a reckless light danced for a moment in his one efficient eye.</p>
			<p>“I guess I almost wish there were something to be concerned about! Sir Reginald is always telling me I’m the head of the oldest branch of the whole Cromarty family and it’s my duty to live in the house of my ancestors and be an ornament to the county, and all the rest of it. But I tell you it’s a damned quiet life for a man who’s had his eye put out with a broken whisky bottle and hanged the man who did it with his own hands!”</p>
			<p>“Hanged him!” exclaimed the lawyer sharply.</p>
			<p>“Oh, it wasn’t merely for the eye. That gave the performance a kind of relish it would otherwise have lacked, being a cold-blooded ceremony and a little awkward with the apparatus we had. We hanged him for murder, as a matter of fact. Now, between ourselves, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, we don’t want to crab our own county, but you must confess that real good serious crime is devilish scarce here, eh?”</p>
			<p>Cromarty’s eye was gleaming humorously, and Simon Rattar might have been thought the kind of tough customer who would have been amused by the joke. He seemed, however, to be affected unpleasantly and even a little startled.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I trust we don’t,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Well,” his visitor agreed, “as it means that something or somebody has got to be sacrificed to start the sport of man-hunting, I suppose there’s something to be said for the quiet life. But personally I’d sooner be after men than grouse, from the point of view of getting thorough satisfaction while it lasts. My sister says it means I haven’t settled down properly yet⁠—calls me the bold bad bachelor!”</p>
			<p>Through this speech Simon seemed to be looking at his visitor with an attention that bordered on fascination, and it was apparently with a slight effort that he asked at the end:</p>
			<p>“Well, why don’t you marry?”</p>
			<p>“Marry!” exclaimed Ned Cromarty. “And where will you find the lady that’s to succumb to my fascinations? I’m within a month of forty, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, I’ve the mind, habits, and appearance of a backwoodsman, and I’ve one working eye left. A female collector of antique curiosities, or something in the nature of a retired wardress might take on the job, but I can’t think of any one else!”</p>
			<p>He laughed as he spoke, and yet something remarkably like a sigh followed the laugh, and for a moment after he had ceased speaking his eye looked abstractedly into space.</p>
			<p>Before either spoke again, the door opened and the clerk, seeing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar was still engaged, murmured a “beg pardon” and was about to retire again.</p>
			<p>“What is it?” asked the lawyer.</p>
			<p>“Miss Farmond is waiting to see you, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll let you know when I’m free,” said Simon.</p>
			<p>Had his eye been on his visitor as his clerk spoke, he might have noticed a curious commentary on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty’s professed lack of interest in womankind. His single eye lit up for an instant and he moved sharply in his chair, and then as suddenly repressed all sign of interest.</p>
			<p>A minute or two later the visitor jumped up.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said he, “I guess you’re pretty busy and I’ve been talking too long as it is. Let me have that statement as quick as you like. Good morning!”</p>
			<p>He strode to the door, shut it behind him, and then when he was on the landing, his movements became suddenly more leisurely. Instead of striding downstairs he stood looking curiously in turn at each closed door. It was an old fashioned house and rather a rabbit warren of an office, and it would seem as though for some reason he wished to leave no door unwatched. In a moment he heard the lawyer’s bell ring and very slowly he moved down a step or two while a clerk answered the call and withdrew. And then he took a cigar from his case, bit off the end, and felt for matches; all this being very deliberately done, and his eye following the clerk. Thus when a girl emerged from the room along a passage, she met, apparently quite accidentally, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty of Stanesland.</p>
			<p>At the first glance it was quite evident that the meeting gave more pleasure to the gentleman than to the lady. Indeed, the girl seemed too disconcerted to hide the fact.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Miss Farmond,” said he with what seemed intended for an air of surprise; as though he had no idea she had been within a mile of him. “You coming to see Simon on business too?” And then taking the cue from her constrained manner, he added hurriedly, and with a note of dejection he could not quite hide, “Well, good-bye.”</p>
			<p>The girl’s expression suddenly changed, and with that change the laird of Stanesland’s curious movements became very explicable, for her face was singularly charming when she smiled. It was a rather pale but fresh and clear-skinned face, wide at the forehead and narrowing to a firm little chin, with long-lashed expressive eyes, and a serious expression in repose. Her smile was candid, a little coy and irresistibly engaging, and her voice was very pleasant, rather low, and most engaging too. She was of middle height and dressed in mourning. Her age seemed rather under than over twenty.</p>
			<p>“Oh,” she said, with a touch of hesitation at first, “I didn’t mean⁠—” She broke off, glanced at the clerk, who being a discreet young man was now in the background, and then with lowered voice confessed, “The fact is, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, I’m not really supposed to be here at all. That’s to say nobody knows I am.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty looked infinitely relieved.</p>
			<p>“And you don’t want anybody to know?” he said in his outspoken way. “Right you are. I can lie low and say nothing, or lie hard and say what you like; whichever you choose.”</p>
			<p>“Lying low will do,” she smiled. “But please don’t think I’m doing anything very wrong.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll think what you tell me,” he said gallantly. “I <em>was</em> thinking Silent Simon was in luck’s way⁠—but perhaps you’re going to wig him?”</p>
			<p>She laughed and shook her head.</p>
			<p>“Can you imagine me daring to wig <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar?”</p>
			<p>“I guess he needs waking up now and then like other people. He’s been slacking over my business. In fact, I can’t quite make him out this morning. He’s not quite his usual self for some reason. Don’t be afraid to wig him if he needs it!”</p>
			<p>The clerk in the background coughed and Miss Cicely Farmond moved towards the door of the lawyer’s room, but Ned Cromarty seemed reluctant to end the meeting so quickly.</p>
			<p>“How did you come?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Walked,” she smiled.</p>
			<p>“Walked! And how are you going back?”</p>
			<p>“Walk again.”</p>
			<p>“I say,” he suggested eagerly, “I’ve got my trap in. Let me drive you!”</p>
			<p>She hesitated a moment.</p>
			<p>“It’s awfully good of you to think of it⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That’s settled then. I’ll be on the look out when you leave old Simon’s den.”</p>
			<p>He raised his cap and went downstairs this time without any hesitation. He had forgotten to light his cigar, and it was probably as a substitute for smoking that he found himself whistling.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
