<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>XXIX</h2>
				<h3>Brother and Sister</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Ned Cromarty found his sister in her room.</p>
			<p>“Well, Ned,” she asked, “where on earth have you been?”</p>
			<p>He shut the door before he answered, and then came up to the fireplace, and planted himself in front of her.</p>
			<p>“Who told you that Cicely Farmond was engaged to Malcolm Cromarty?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>She made a little grimace of comic alarm, but her eye was apprehensive.</p>
			<p>“Don’t eat my head off, Neddy! How can I remember?”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got to remember,” said her brother grimly. “And you’d better be careful what you tell me, for I’ll go straight to the woman, or man, you name.”</p>
			<p>She looked at him boldly enough.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know if you are aware of it, but this isn’t the way I’m accustomed to be talked to.”</p>
			<p>“It’s the way you’re being talked to now,” said he. “Who told you?”</p>
			<p>“I absolutely refuse to answer if you speak to me like that, Ned!”</p>
			<p>“Then we part company, Lilian.”</p>
			<p>There was no doubt about the apprehension in her eye now. For a moment it seemed to wonder whether he was actually in earnest, and then to decide that he was.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I don’t know who told me,” she said in an altered voice.</p>
			<p>“Did anybody tell you, or did you make it up?”</p>
			<p>“I never actually said they were engaged.”</p>
			<p>He looked at her in silence and very hard, and then he spoke deliberately.</p>
			<p>“I won’t ask you why you deceived me, Lilian, but it was a low down trick to play on me, and it has turned out to be a damned cruel trick to play on that girl. I mentioned the engagement as a mere matter of course to somebody, and though I mentioned it confidentially, it started this slander about Malcolm Cromarty and Cicely Farmond conspiring to murder⁠—to <i>murder</i>, Lilian!⁠—the man of all men they owed most to. That’s what you’ve done!”</p>
			<p>By this time Lilian Cromarty’s handkerchief was at her eyes.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I am very sorry, Ned,” she murmured.</p>
			<p>But he was not to be soothed by a tear, even in the most adroit lady’s eye.</p>
			<p>“The latest consequence has been,” he said sternly, “that through a mixture of persecution and bad advice she has been driven to run away. Luckily I spotted her at the start and fetched her back, and I’ve told her that if there is the least little bit more trouble she is to come straight here and that you will give her as good a welcome as I shall. Is that quite clear?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she murmured through her handkerchief.</p>
			<p>“Otherwise,” said he, “there’s no room for us both here. One single suggestion that she isn’t welcome⁠—and you have full warning now of the consequences!”</p>
			<p>“When is she coming?” she asked in an uncertain voice.</p>
			<p>“When? Possibly never. But there’s some very fishy⁠—and it looks to me, some very dirty business going on, and this port stands open in case of a storm. You fully understand?”</p>
			<p>“Of course I do,” she said, putting away her handkerchief. “I’m not quite a fool!”</p>
			<p>And indeed, none of her friends or acquaintances had ever made that accusation against Lilian Cromarty.</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s all,” said Ned, and began to move across the room.</p>
			<p>But now the instinct for finding a scapegoat began to revive.</p>
			<p>“Who did you tell it to, Ned?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“Simon Rattar.”</p>
			<p>“Then <i>he</i> has spread this dreadful story!” she exclaimed with righteous indignation.</p>
			<p>Her brother stopped and slowly turned back.</p>
			<p>“By heaven, I’ve scarcely had time to think it all out yet⁠—but it looks like it!”</p>
			<p>“It <i>must</i> be that nasty grumpy old creature! If you told nobody else⁠—well, it can’t be anybody else!”</p>
			<p>“But why should he go and spread such a story?”</p>
			<p>“Because he wants to shelter some one else!”</p>
			<p>“Who?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, that’s for the police to find out. But I’m quite certain, Ned, that that pig-headed old Simon with his cod-fish eyes and his everlasting grunt is at the bottom of it all!”</p>
			<p>He stared thoughtfully into space.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said slowly, “he has certainly been asking for trouble in one or two ways, and this seems another invitation. But he’ll get it, sure! At the same time⁠—what’s his object?”</p>
			<p>His sister had no hesitation.</p>
			<p>“Either to make money or hide something disgraceful. You really must enquire into this, Ned!”</p>
			<p>He dropped into a chair and sat for a few minutes with his face in his hands. At last he looked up and shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I’m out of my depth,” he said. “I guess I’d better see Carrington.”</p>
			<p>“Mr. Carrington?” she exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“I had a long talk with him,” he explained. “He seems an uncommon shrewd fellow. Yes, that’s the proper line!”</p>
			<p>She looked at him curiously but evidently judged it tactful in the present delicate situation to ask no more. He rose now and went, still thoughtful, to the door.</p>
			<p>“What a dreadful thing of Simon Rattar to do! Wasn’t it, Ned?” she said indignantly, her eyes as bright as ever again.</p>
			<p>He turned as she went out.</p>
			<p>“The whole thing has been damnable!”</p>
			<p>As the door closed behind him she made a little grimace again and then gave a little shrug.</p>
			<p>“He’s going to marry her!” she said to herself, and acting immediately on a happy inspiration, sat down to write a long and affectionate letter to an old friend whose country house might, with judicious management, be considered good for a six months’ visit.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
