<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>IX</h2>
				<h3>A Philosopher</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>During luncheon an exceedingly efficient person had been moving briskly behind the chairs. His face was so expressionless, his mouth so tightly closed, and his air of concentration on the business in hand so intense, that he seemed the perfect type of the silent butler. But as soon as lunch was over, and while Cicely still stood in the hall listening with a dubious eye to Malcolm’s suggestion of a game of billiards, Mr. James Bisset revealed the other side of his personality. He came up to the young couple with just sufficient deference, but no more, and in an accent which experts would have recognised as the hall mark of the western part of North Britain, said:</p>
			<p>“Excuse me, miss, but I’ve mended your bicycle and I’ll show it you if ye like, and just explain the principle of the thing.”</p>
			<p>There was at least as much command as invitation in his tones. The billiard invitation was refused, and with a hidden smile Cicely followed him to the bicycle house.</p>
			<p>Expert knowledge was James Bisset’s foible. Of some subjects, such as buttling, carpentry, and mending bicycles, it was practical; of others, such as shooting, gardening, and motoring, it was more theoretical. To Sir Reginald and my lady he was quite indispensable, for he could repair almost anything, knew his own more particular business from A to Z, and was ready at any moment to shoulder any responsibility. Sir Reginald’s keeper, gardener, and chauffeur were apt however to be a trifle less enthusiastic, Mr. Bisset’s passion for expounding the principles of their professions sometimes exceeding his tact.</p>
			<p>In person, he was an active, stoutly built man (though far too energetic to be fat), with blunt rounded features, eyes a little protruding, and sandy hair and a reddish complexion which made his age an unguessable secret. He might have been in the thirties or he might have been in the fifties.</p>
			<p>“With regard to these ladies’ bicycles, miss⁠—” he began with a lecturer’s air.</p>
			<p>But by this time Cicely was also an expert in side-tracking her friend’s theoretical essays.</p>
			<p>“Oh, how clever of you!” she exclaimed rapturously. “It looks as good as ever!”</p>
			<p>The interruption was too gratifying to offend.</p>
			<p>“Better in some ways,” he said complacently. “The principle of these things is⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I did miss it this morning,” she hurried on. “In fact I had to have quite a long walk. Luckily Mr. Cromarty of Stanesland gave me a lift coming home.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, indeed, miss? Stanesland gave ye a lift, did he? An interesting gentleman yon.”</p>
			<p>This time she made no effort to divert Mr. Bisset’s train of thought.</p>
			<p>“You think Mr. Cromarty interesting, then?” said she.</p>
			<p>“They say he’s hanged a man with his ain hands,” said Bisset impressively.</p>
			<p>“What!” she cried.</p>
			<p>“For good and sufficient reason, we’ll hope, miss. But whatever the way of it, it makes a gentleman more interesting in a kin’ of way than the usual run. And then looking at the thing on general principles, the theory of hanging is⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but surely,” she interrupted, “that isn’t the only reason why Mr. Cromarty⁠—I mean why you think he is interesting?”</p>
			<p>“There’s that glass eye, too. That’s very interesting, miss.”</p>
			<p>She still seemed unsatisfied.</p>
			<p>“His glass eye! Oh⁠—you mean it has a story?”</p>
			<p>“Vera possibly. He says himself it was done wi’ a whisky bottle, but possibly that’s making the best of it. But what interests me, miss, about yon eye is this⁠—”</p>
			<p>He paused dramatically and she enquired in an encouraging voice:</p>
			<p>“Yes, Bisset?”</p>
			<p>“It’s the principle of introducing a foreign substance so near the man’s brain. What’s glass? What’s it consist of?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I don’t know,” confessed Cicely weakly.</p>
			<p>“Silica! And what’s silica? Practically the same as sand! Well now if ye put a handful of sand into a man’s brain⁠—or anyhow next door to it, it’s bound to have some effect, bound to have some effect!”</p>
			<p>Bisset’s voice fell to a very serious note, and as he was famous for the range of his reading and was generally said to know practically by heart “The People’s Self-Educator in Science and Art,” Cicely asked a little apprehensively:</p>
			<p>“But what effect can it possibly have?”</p>
			<p>“It might take him different ways,” said the philosopher cautiously though sombrely. “But it’s a good thing, anyway, Miss Farmond, that the laird of Stanesland is no likely to get married.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t he?” she asked, again with that encouraging note.</p>
			<p>Bisset replied with another question, asked in an ominous voice:</p>
			<p>“Have ye seen yon castle o’ his, miss?”</p>
			<p>Cicely nodded.</p>
			<p>“I called there once with Lady Cromarty.”</p>
			<p>“A most interesting place, miss, illustrating the principle of thae castles very instructively.”</p>
			<p>Mr. Bisset had evidently been studying architecture as well as science, and no doubt would have given Miss Farmond some valuable information on the subject. But she seemed to lack enthusiasm for it to-day.</p>
			<p>“But will the castle prevent him marrying?” she enquired with a smile.</p>
			<p>“The lady in it will,” said the philosopher with a sudden descent into worldly shrewdness.</p>
			<p>“Miss Cromarty! Why?”</p>
			<p>“She’s mair comfortable there than setting off on her travels again. That’s a fac’, miss.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—but supposing he⁠—” Cicely began and then paused.</p>
			<p>“Oh, the laird’s no the marrying sort anyhow. He says to me himself one day when I’d taken the liberty of suggesting that a lady would suit the castle fine⁠—we was shooting and I was carrying his cartridges, which I do for amusement, miss, whiles⁠—‘Bisset,’ says he, ‘the lady will have to be a damned keen shot to think me worth a cartridge. I’m too tough for the table,’ says he, ‘and not ornamental enough to stuff. They’ve let me off so far, and why the he⁠—’ begging your pardon, miss, but Stanesland uses strong expressions sometimes. ‘Why the something,’ says he, ‘should they want to put me in the bag now? I’m happier free⁠—and so’s the lady.’ But he’s a grand shot and a vera friendly gentleman, vera friendly indeed. It’s a pity, though, he’s that ugly.”</p>
			<p>“Ugly!” she exclaimed. “Oh, I don’t think him ugly at all. He’s very striking looking. I think he is rather handsome.”</p>
			<p>Bisset looked at her with a benevolently reproving eye.</p>
			<p>“Weel, miss, it’s all a matter of taste, but to my mind Stanesland is a fine gentleman, but the vera opposite extreme from a Venus.” He broke off and glanced towards the house. “Oh, help us! There’s one of thae helpless women crying on me. How this house would get on wanting me⁠—!”</p>
			<p>He left Miss Farmond to paint the gloomy picture for herself.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
