<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: Cicely</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Cicely</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Ned Cromarty waited in the hall while Bisset went to the door with the Procurator Fiscal and Superintendent of Police. As he stood there in the darkened silence of the house, there came to his ears for an instant the faint sound of a voice, and it seemed to be a woman’s. With that the current of his thoughts seemed to change, and when Bisset returned he asked, though with marked hesitation:</p>
			<p>“Do you think, Bisset, I could do anything for any of them, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Malcolm Cromarty, or⁠—er⁠—Miss Farmond?”</p>
			<p>Bisset considered the point judicially. It was clear he felt that the management of the household was in his hands now.</p>
			<p>“I am sure Miss Farmond would be pleased, sir⁠—poor young lady!”</p>
			<p>“Do you really think so?” said Ned, and his manner brightened visibly. “Well, if she won’t mind⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I think if you come this way, sir, you will find her with Sir Malcolm.”</p>
			<p>“<em>Sir</em> Malcolm!” exclaimed Ned. “My God, so he is!”</p>
			<p>To himself he added:</p>
			<p>“And she will soon be Lady Cromarty!”</p>
			<p>But the thought did not seem to exhilarate him.</p>
			<p>He was led towards the billiard room, an addition to the house which lay rather apart. The door was half open and through it he could see that the blinds had been drawn down, and he could hear a murmur of voices.</p>
			<p>“They are in there, sir,” said Bisset, and he left him.</p>
			<p>As Ned Cromarty entered he caught the words, spoken by the new baronet:</p>
			<p>“My dear Cicely, I depend on your sympathy⁠—”</p>
			<p>He broke off as he heard a footstep, and seemed to move a little apart from the chair where Cicely was sitting.</p>
			<p>The two young people greeted their visitor, Cicely in a voice so low that it was scarcely audible, but with a smile that seemed, he thought, to welcome him; Sir Malcolm with a tragic solemnity which no doubt was quite appropriate to a bereaved baronet. The appearance of a third party seemed, however, to afford him no particular gratification, and after exchanging a sentence or two, he begged, in a very serious tone, to be excused, and retired, walking softly and mournfully. Ned noticed then that his face was extraordinarily pale and his eye disturbed.</p>
			<p>“I was afraid of disturbing you,” said Ned. He was embarrassed, a rare condition with him, which, when it did afflict him, resulted in an impression of intimidating truculence.</p>
			<p>Cicely seemed to shrink a little, and he resolved to leave instantly.</p>
			<p>“Oh no!” she said shyly.</p>
			<p>“I only wanted to say that if I could do anything for you⁠—well, you’ve only to let me know.”</p>
			<p>“It’s awfully kind of you,” she murmured.</p>
			<p>There was something so evidently sincere in this murmur that his embarrassment forthwith left him.</p>
			<p>“Thank Heaven!” he said after his outspoken habit. “I was afraid I was putting my foot in it. But if you really don’t mind my seeing you for a minute or two, I’d just like to say⁠—”</p>
			<p>He broke off abruptly, and she looked up at him questioningly.</p>
			<p>“Dash it, I can’t say it, Miss Farmond! But you know, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>She murmured something again, and though he could not quite hear what it was, he knew she understood and appreciated.</p>
			<p>Leaning against the corner of the shrouded billiard table, with the blinds down and this pale slip of a girl in deep mourning sitting in a basket chair in the dim light, he began suddenly to realise the tragedy.</p>
			<p>“I’ve been too stunned till now to grasp what’s happened,” he said in a moment. “Our best friend gone, Miss Farmond!”</p>
			<p>He had said exactly the right thing now.</p>
			<p>“He certainly was mine!” she said.</p>
			<p>“And mine too. We may live to be a brace of Methuselahs, but I guess we’ll never see his like again!”</p>
			<p>His odd phrase made her smile for a moment despite herself. It passed swiftly and she said:</p>
			<p>“<em>I</em> can’t believe it yet.”</p>
			<p>Again there was silence, and then he said abruptly:</p>
			<p>“It’s little wonder you can’t believe it. The thing is so extraordinary. It’s incredible. A man without an enemy in the world⁠—no robbery attempted⁠—sitting in his own library⁠—in just about the most peaceful and out of the way county in Scotland⁠—not a sound heard by anybody⁠—not a reason that one can possibly imagine⁠—and yet murdered!”</p>
			<p>“But it must have been a robber surely!”</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t he rob something then?”</p>
			<p>“But how else⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“How indeed! You’ve not a suspicion of anyone yourself, Miss Farmond? Say it right out if you have. We don’t lynch here. At least,” he corrected himself as he recalled the telegraph posts, “it hasn’t been done yet.”</p>
			<p>“I <em>can’t</em> suspect anyone!” she said earnestly. “I never met anyone in my life that I could possibly imagine doing such a thing!”</p>
			<p>“No,” he said. “I guess our experiences have been pretty different. I’ve met lots, but then there are none of those boys here. Who is there in this place?”</p>
			<p>He paused and stared into space.</p>
			<p>“It must have been a tramp⁠—someone who doesn’t belong here!”</p>
			<p>“I was trying to think whether there are any lunatics about,” he said in a moment. “But there aren’t any.”</p>
			<p>There was silence for some minutes. He was thinking; she never moved. Then he heard a sound, and looking down saw that she had her handkerchief in her hand. He had nearly bent over her before he remembered Sir Malcolm, and at the recollection he said abruptly:</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ve disturbed you too long. If I can do anything⁠—anything whatever, you’ll let me know, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“You are very, very kind,” she murmured, and a note in her voice nearly made him forget the new baronet. In fact, he had to retire rather quickly to be sure of himself.</p>
			<p>The efficiency of James Bisset was manifest at every conjuncture. Businesslike and brisk he appeared from somewhere as Cromarty reached the hall, and led him from the front regions to the butler’s sitting room.</p>
			<p>“I will bring your lunch in a moment, sir,” he murmured, and vanished briskly.</p>
			<p>The room looked out on a courtyard at the back, and through the window Ned could see against the opposite buildings the rain driving in clouds. In the court the wind was eddying, and beneath some door he could hear it drone insistently. Though the toughest of men, he shivered a little and drew up a wicker chair close in front of the fire.</p>
			<p>“It’s incredible!” he murmured, and as he stared at the flames this thought seemed to haunt him all the time.</p>
			<p>Bisset laid the table and another hour passed. Ned ate a little lunch and then smoked and stared at the fire while the wind droned and blustered without ceasing, and occasionally a cross gust sent the rain drops softly pattering on the panes.</p>
			<p>“I’m damned if I see a thing!” he suddenly exclaimed half aloud, and jumped to his feet.</p>
			<p>Before he had time to start for the door, Bisset’s mysterious efficiency was made manifest again. Precisely as he was wanted, he appeared, and this time it was clear that his own efforts had not been altogether fruitless. He had in fact an air of even greater complacency than usual.</p>
			<p>“I have arrived at certain conclusions, sir,” he announced.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
