<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Letter</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was a few days later that Cicely looked up from the local paper she was reading and asked:</p>
			<p>“Who was George Rattar?”</p>
			<p>Sir Reginald laid down his book and looked at her in some surprise.</p>
			<p>“George Rattar? What do you know about him?”</p>
			<p>“I see the announcement of his death. ‘Son of the late John Simon Rattar’ he’s called.”</p>
			<p>“That’s Silent Simon’s brother!” exclaimed Sir Reginald. “Where did he die?”</p>
			<p>“In New York, it says.”</p>
			<p>Sir Reginald turned to his wife.</p>
			<p>“We can hardly send our sympathies to Simon on this bereavement!”</p>
			<p>“No,” she said significantly. “I suppose congratulations would be more appropriate.”</p>
			<p>The baronet took the paper from Cicely and studied it himself.</p>
			<p>“Died about a fortnight ago, I see,” he observed. “I wonder whether Simon put this announcement in himself, or whether brother George arranged it in his will? It would be quite like the fellow to have this posthumous wipe at Simon. George had a certain sense of humour⁠—which Simon lacks. And there was certainly no love lost between them!”</p>
			<p>“Why should it annoy <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar?” asked Cicely.</p>
			<p>“Because brother George was not a member of his family he would care to be reminded of. Though on the other hand, Simon is as hard as whinstone and has as much sentiment as this teapot, and he may have put the notice in himself simply to show the world he was rid of the fellow.”</p>
			<p>“What was George Rattar then?” enquired Cicely.</p>
			<p>“He was once Simon Rattar’s partner, wasn’t he, Reginald?” said Lady Cromarty. “And then he swindled him, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Swindled several other people as well,” said Sir Reginald, “myself included. However, the thing was hushed up, and brother George disappeared. Then he took to forgery on his own account and among other people’s signatures he imitated with remarkable success was Simon’s. This let old Simon in for it again and there was no hushing it up a second time. Simon gave evidence against him without mercy, and since then George has been his Majesty’s guest for a number of years. So if you meet <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar, Cicely, you’d better not tell him how sorry you are to hear of poor George’s decease!”</p>
			<p>“I wish I could remember him more distinctly,” said Lady Cromarty. “I’m afraid I always mix him up with our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon.”</p>
			<p>“It’s little wonder,” her husband replied. “They were twins. George was the one with a moustache; one knew them apart by that. Extraordinary thing, it has always seemed to me, that their natures should have been so different.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps,” suggested Cicely compassionately, with her serious air, “it was only that George was tempted.”</p>
			<p>Sir Reginald laughed heartily.</p>
			<p>“You little cynic!” he cried. “You mean to insinuate that if you tempted Simon, he’d be as bad a hat as his brother?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no!” cried Cicely. “I meant⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Tempt him and see!” chuckled the baronet. “And we’ll have a little bet on the result!” He was glancing at the paper as he laughed, and now he suddenly stopped laughing and exclaimed, “Hullo! Here’s a much more serious loss for our friend. Would you like to earn £1, Cicely?”</p>
			<p>“Very much,” said she.</p>
			<p>“Well then if you search the road very carefully between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar’s residence and his office you may find his signet ring and obtain the advertised, and I may say princely, reward of one pound.”</p>
			<p>“Only a pound!” exclaimed Lady Cromarty, “for that handsome old ring of his?”</p>
			<p>“If he had offered a penny more, I should have taken my business out of his hands!” laughed Sir Reginald. “It would have meant that Silent Simon wasn’t himself any longer. A pound is exactly his figure; a respectable sum, but not extravagant.”</p>
			<p>“What day did he lose it?” asked Cicely.</p>
			<p>“The advertisement doesn’t say.”</p>
			<p>“He wasn’t wearing it⁠—” Cicely pulled herself up sharply.</p>
			<p>“When?” asked Lady Cromarty.</p>
			<p>“Where can I have seen him last?” wondered Cicely with an innocent air.</p>
			<p>“Not for two or three weeks certainly,” said Lady Cromarty decisively. “And he can’t have lost it then if this advertisement is only just put in.”</p>
			<p>“No, of course not,” Cicely agreed.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Sir Reginald, “he’ll miss his ring more than his brother! And remember, Cicely, you get a pound for finding the ring, and you win a pair of gloves if you can tempt Simon to stray from the paths of honesty and virtue! By Jingo, I’ll give you the gloves if you can even make him tell a good sporting lie!”</p>
			<p>When the good baronet was in this humour no man could excel him in geniality, and, to do him justice, a kindly temper and hearty spirits were the rule with him six days out of seven. On the other hand, he was easily ruffled and his tempers were hot while they lasted. Upon the very next morning there arose on the horizon a little cloud, a cloud that seemed at the moment the merest fleck of vapour, which upset him, his family thought, quite unduly.</p>
			<p>It took the form of a business letter from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar, a letter on the surface perfectly innocuous and formally polite. Yet Sir Reginald seemed considerably disturbed.</p>
			<p>“Damn the man!” he exclaimed as he cast it on the breakfast table.</p>
			<p>“Reggie!” expostulated his wife gently. “What’s the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Matter?” snapped her husband. “Simon Rattar has the impudence to tell me he is letting the farm of Castleknowe to that fellow Shearer after all!”</p>
			<p>“But why not? You meant to some time ago, I know.”</p>
			<p>“Some time ago, certainly. But I had a long talk with Simon ten days ago and told him what I’d heard about Shearer and said I wouldn’t have the fellow on my property at any price. I don’t believe the man is solvent, in the first place; and in the second place he’s a socialistic, quarrelsome, mischievous fellow!”</p>
			<p>“And what did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar think?”</p>
			<p>“He tried to make some allowances for the man, but in the end when he saw I had made up my mind, he professed to agree with me and said he would look out for another tenant. Now he tells me that the matter is settled as per my instructions of the 8th. That’s weeks ago, and not a word does he say about our conversation cancelling the whole instructions!”</p>
			<p>“Then Shearer gets the farm?”</p>
			<p>“No, he doesn’t! I’m dashed if he does! I shall send <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon a letter that will make him sit up! He’s got to alter the arrangement somehow.”</p>
			<p>He turned to Malcolm and added:</p>
			<p>“When your time comes, Malcolm, beware of having a factor who has run the place so long that he thinks it’s his own property! By Gad, I’m going to tell him a bit of my mind!”</p>
			<p>During the rest of breakfast he glanced at the letter once or twice, and each time his brows contracted, but he said nothing more in presence of Cicely and Malcolm. After he had left the dining room, however, Lady Cromarty followed him and said:</p>
			<p>“Don’t be too hasty with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, Reggie! After all, the talk may have slipped his memory.”</p>
			<p>“Slipped his memory? If you had heard it, Margaret, you’d know better. I was a bit cross with him for a minute or two then, which I hardly ever am, and that alone would make him remember it, one would think. We talked for over an hour on the business and the upshot was clear and final. No, no, he has got a bit above himself and wants a touch of the curb.”</p>
			<p>“What are you going to do?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“I’m going to send in a note by car and tell him to come out and see me about the business at once.”</p>
			<p>“Let me see the letter before you send it, Reggie.”</p>
			<p>He seemed to growl assent, but when she next saw him the letter had gone; and from the baronet’s somewhat crusty explanation, she suspected that it was a little sharper than he knew she would have approved.</p>
			<p>When the car returned his annoyance was increased again for a space. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar had sent a brief reply that he was too busy to come out that afternoon, but he would call on Sir Reginald in the morning. For a time this answer kept Sir Reginald in a state of renewed irritation, and then his natural good humour began to prevail, till by dinner time he was quite calm again, and after dinner in as genial humour as he had been in the day before.</p>
			<p>He played a game of pyramids with Cicely and Malcolm in the billiard room, and then he and Cicely joined Lady Cromarty in the drawing room while the young author went up to his room to work, he declared. He had a large bedroom furnished half as a sitting room where he retired each night to compose his masterpieces as soon as it became impossible to enjoy Miss Farmond’s company without having to share it in the drawing room with his host and hostess. At least, that was the explanation of his procedure given by Lady Cromarty, whose eye was never more critical than when it studied her husband’s kinsman and heir.</p>
			<p>Lady Cromarty’s eye was not uncritical also of Cicely at times, but to-night she was so relieved to see how Sir Reginald’s temper improved under her smiles and half shy glances, that she let her stay up later than usual. Then when she and the girl went up to bed, she asked her husband if he would be late.</p>
			<p>“The magazines came this morning,” said he. “I’d better sleep in my dressing room.”</p>
			<p>The baronet was apt to sit up late when he had anything to read that held his fancy, and the procedure of sleeping in his dressing room was commonly followed then.</p>
			<p>He bade them good-night and went off towards the library, and a few minutes later, as they were going upstairs, they heard the library door shut.</p>
			<p>When they came to Lady Cromarty’s room, Cicely said good-night to her hostess and turned down the passage that led to her own bedroom. A door opened quietly as she passed and a voice whispered:</p>
			<p>“Cicely!”</p>
			<p>She stopped and regarded the young author with a reproving eye.</p>
			<p>“Is anything the matter?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“I just wanted to speak to you!” he pleaded.</p>
			<p>“Now, Malcolm,” she said severely, “you know quite well that Lady Cromarty trusts us <em>not</em> to do this sort of thing!”</p>
			<p>“She’s in her room, isn’t she?”</p>
			<p>“What does that matter?”</p>
			<p>“And where’s Sir Reginald?”</p>
			<p>“Still in the library.”</p>
			<p>“Sitting up late?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but that doesn’t matter either. Good night!”</p>
			<p>“Wait just one minute, Cicely! Come into my room⁠—I won’t shut the door!”</p>
			<p>“Certainly not!” she said emphatically.</p>
			<p>“Well then, don’t speak so loudly! I must confide in you, Cicely; I’m getting desperate. My position is really serious. Something’s got to happen! If you would only give me your sympathy⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I thought you were writing,” she interrupted.</p>
			<p>“I’ve been trying to, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Well, write all this down and read it to me to-morrow,” she smiled. “Good night!”</p>
			<p>“The blame be on your head!” began the author dramatically, but the slim figure was already moving away, throwing him a parting smile that seemed to wound his sensitive soul afresh.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
