<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Mr. Carrington’s Walk</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Mr. Carrington’s easy saunter lasted till he had turned out of the street on which the Kings Arms stood, when it passed into an easy walk. Though he had seemed, on the whole, disinclined to go in the Keldale direction that morning, nevertheless he continued to head that way till at last he was on the high road with the little town behind him; and then his pace altered again. He stepped out now like the sportsman he was, and was doing a good four miles an hour by the time he was out of sight of the last houses.</p>
			<p>For a man who had come out to gather ideas as to the sporting possibilities of the country, Mr. Carrington seemed to pay singularly little attention to his surroundings. He appeared, in fact, to be thinking about something else all the time, and the first sign of interest he showed in anything outside his thoughts was when he found himself within sight of the lodge gates of Keldale House, with the avenue sweeping away from the road towards the roofs and chimneys amid the trees. At the sight of this he stopped, and leaning over the low wall at the road side gazed with much interest at the scene of the tragedy he had heard so much of last night. The choice spirits, had they been there to see, would have been gratified to find that their graphic narratives had sent this indolent looking gentleman to view the spot so swiftly.</p>
			<p>From the house and grounds his eye travelled back to the road and then surveyed the surrounding country very attentively. He even stood on top of the wall to get a wider view; and then all of a sudden he jumped down again and adopted the reverse procedure, bending now so that little more than his head appeared above the wall. And the reason for this change of plan appeared to be a figure which had emerged from the trees and began to move along a path between the fields.</p>
			<p>Mr. Carrington studied this figure with concentrated attention, and as it drew nearer and became more distinct, a light leapt into his eye that gave him a somewhat different expression from any his acquaintances of last night had observed. He saw that the path followed a small stream and ran at an angle to the high road, joining it at last at a point some little distance back towards the town. He looked quickly up and down the road. Not a soul was in sight to see his next very curious performance. The leisurely Mr. Carrington crossed to the further side, where he was invisible from the path, and then set out to run at a rapid pace till he reached the junction of path and road. And then he turned down the path.</p>
			<p>But now his bearing altered again in a very extraordinary way. His gait fell once more to a saunter and his angling enthusiasm seemed suddenly to have returned, for he frequently studied the burn as he strolled along, and there was no sign of any thoughtfulness on his ingenuous countenance. There were a few willows beside the path, and the path itself meandered, and this was doubtless the reason why he appeared entirely unconscious of the approach of another foot passenger till they were within a few yards of one another. And then Mr. Carrington stopped suddenly, seemed to hesitate, pulled out his watch and glanced at it, and then with an apologetic air raised his hat.</p>
			<p>The other foot passenger was face to face with him now, a slim figure in black, with a sweet, serious face.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me,” said Mr. Carrington, “but can you tell me where this path leads?”</p>
			<p>He was so polite and so evidently anxious to give no offence, and his face was such a certificate to his amiable character that the girl stopped too and answered without hesitation:</p>
			<p>“It leads to Keldale House.”</p>
			<p>“Keldale House?” he repeated, and then the idea seemed to arouse associations. “By Jove!” he exclaimed. “Really? I’m an utter stranger here, but isn’t that the place where the murder took place?”</p>
			<p>Had Mr. Carrington been a really observant man, one would think he would have noticed the sudden change of expression in the girl’s face⁠—as if he had aroused painful thoughts. He did seem to look at her for an instant as he asked the question, but then turned his gaze towards the distant glimpse of the house.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she murmured and looked as though she wanted to pass on; but Mr. Carrington seemed so excited by his discovery that he never noticed this and still stood right in her path.</p>
			<p>“How very interesting!” he murmured. “By Jove, how very interesting!” And then with the air of passing on a still more interesting piece of news, he said suddenly, “I hear they have arrested Sir Malcolm Cromarty.”</p>
			<p>This time he kept his monocle full on her.</p>
			<p>“Arrested him!” she cried. “What for?”</p>
			<p>This question, put with the most palpable wonder, seemed to disconcert Mr. Carrington considerably. He even hesitated in a very unusual way for him.</p>
			<p>“For⁠—for the murder, of course.”</p>
			<p>Her eyes opened very wide.</p>
			<p>“For Sir Reginald’s murder? How ridiculous!”</p>
			<p>Again Mr. Carrington seemed a little disconcerted.</p>
			<p>“Er⁠—why is it ridiculous?” he asked. “Of course, I⁠—I know nothing about the gentleman.”</p>
			<p>“Evidently!” she agreed with reproach in her eyes. “If Sir Malcolm really has been arrested, it can only have been for something quite silly. He couldn’t commit a murder!”</p>
			<p>The fact that this tribute to the baronet’s innocence was not wholly devoid of a flavour of criticism seemed to strike Mr. Carrington, for his eye twinkled for an instant.</p>
			<p>“You are acquainted with him then?” said he.</p>
			<p>“I am staying at Keldale; in fact, I am a relation.”</p>
			<p>There was no doubt of her intention to rebuke the too garrulous gentleman by this information, and it succeeded completely. He passed at once to the extreme of apology.</p>
			<p>“Oh! I beg your pardon!” he exclaimed. “I had no idea. Really, I hope you will accept my apologies, Miss⁠—er⁠—Cromarty.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Farmond,” she corrected.</p>
			<p>“Miss Farmond, I mean. It was frightfully tactless of me!”</p>
			<p>He said it so nicely and looked so innocently guilty and so contrite, that her look lost its touch of indignation.</p>
			<p>“I still can’t understand what you mean about Sir Malcolm being arrested,” she said. “How did you hear?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I was very likely misinformed. An old fellow at the hotel last night was saying so.”</p>
			<p>Her eye began to grow indignant again.</p>
			<p>“What old fellow?”</p>
			<p>“Red hair, shaky knees, bit of a stammer, answers to the name of Sandy, I believe.”</p>
			<p>“Old Sandy Donaldson!” she exclaimed. “That drunken old thing! He was simply talking nonsense as usual!”</p>
			<p>“He seemed a little in liquor,” he admitted, “but you see I am a mere stranger. I didn’t realise what a loose authority I quoted. There is nothing in the report, I am certain. And this path leads only to Keldale House? Thank you very much. Good morning!”</p>
			<p>How Mr. Carrington had obtained this erroneous information from a person whose back he had merely seen for a couple of minutes the night before, as the reprobate in question was being ejected from the Kings Arms, he did not stop to explain. In fact, at this point he showed no inclination to continue the conversation, but bowing very politely, continued his stroll.</p>
			<p>But the effect of the conversation on him remained, and a very marked effect it appeared to be. He took no interest in the burn any longer, but paced slowly on, his eyes sometimes on the path and sometimes staring upwards at the Heavens. So far as his face revealed his sensations, they seemed to be compounded of surprise and perplexity. Several times he shook his head as though some very baffling point had cropped up in his thoughts, and once he murmured:</p>
			<p>“I’m damned!”</p>
			<p>When the path reached the policies of the house, he stopped and seemed to take some interest in his surroundings once more. For a moment it was clear that he was tempted to enter the plantations, and then he shook his head and turned back.</p>
			<p>All the way home he remained immersed in thought and only recovered his nonchalant air as he entered the door of the Kings Arms. He was the same easy-going, smiling young man of fashion as he passed the time of day with Miss Peterkin; but when he had shut the door of his private sitting room and dropped into an easy chair over the fire, he again became so absorbed in thought that he had to be reminded that the hour of luncheon had passed.</p>
			<p>Thought seemed to vanish during lunch, but when he had retired to his room again, it returned for another half hour. At the end of that time he apparently came to a decision, and jumping up briskly, repaired to the manageress’ room. And when Miss Peterkin was taken into his confidence, it appeared that the whole problem had merely concerned the question of taking either a shooting or a fishing for next season.</p>
			<p>“I have been thinking,” said he, “that my best plan will perhaps be to call upon Mr. Simon Rattar and see whether he knows of anything to let. I gather that he is agent for several estates in the county. What do you advise?”</p>
			<p>Miss Peterkin decidedly advised this course, so a few minutes later Mr. Carrington strolled off towards the lawyer’s office.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
