<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVII: Bisset’s Advice</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Bisset’s Advice</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The short November afternoon was fading into a gusty evening, as Ned Cromarty drew near his fortalice. He carried a gun as usual, and as usual walked with seven league strides. Where the drive passed through the scrap of stunted plantation it was already dusk and the tortured boughs had begun their night of sighs and tossings. Beyond them, pale daylight lingered and the old house stood up still clear against a broken sky and a grey waste with flitting whitecaps all the way to the horizon. He had almost reached the front door when he heard the sound of wheels behind him. Pausing there, he spied a pony and a governess’ car, with two people distinct enough to bring a sudden light into his eye. The pony trotted briskly towards the door, and he took a stride to meet them.</p>
			<p>“Miss Farmond!” he said.</p>
			<p>A low voice answered, and though he could not catch the words, the tone was enough for him. And then another voice said:</p>
			<p>“Aye, sir, I’ve brought her over.”</p>
			<p>“Bisset!” said he. “It’s you, is it? Well, what’s happened?”</p>
			<p>He was lifting her out of the trap and not hesitating to hold her hand a little longer than he had ever held it before, now that he could see her face quite plainly and read what was in her eyes.</p>
			<p>“I’ve dared to come after all!” she said, with a little smile, which seemed to hint that she knew the risk was over now.</p>
			<p>“I advised her vera strongly, sir, to come over with me to Stanesland,” explained her escort. “The young lady has had a trying experience at Keldale, and forby the fair impossibility of her stopping on under the unfortunate circumstances, I was of the opinion that the sea air would be a fine change and the architectural features remarkably interesting. In fac’, sir, I practically insisted that Miss Farmond had just got to come.”</p>
			<p>“Good man!” said Ned. “Come in and tell me the unfortunate circumstances.” He bent over Cicely and in a lowered voice added: “Personally I call ’em fortunate⁠—so long as they haven’t been too beastly for you!”</p>
			<p>“It’s all right now!” she murmured, and as they went up the steps he found, somehow or other, her hand for an instant in his again.</p>
			<p>“If you’ll stand by your pony for a moment, Bisset, I’ll send out someone to take her,” he said with happy inspiration.</p>
			<p>But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bisset was not so easily shaken off.</p>
			<p>“She’ll stand fine for a wee while,” he assured his host. “You’ll be the better of hearing all about it from me.”</p>
			<p>They went into the smoking room and the escort began forthwith.</p>
			<p>“The fact is, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, that yon man Simon Rattar is a fair discredit. Miss Farmond has been telling me the haill story of her running away, and your ain vera seasonable appearance and judicious conduct, sir; which I am bound to say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, is neither more nor less than I’d have expectit of a gentleman of your intelligence. Weel, to continue, Miss Farmond acted on your advice⁠—which would have been my own, sir, under the circumstances⁠—and tellt her ladyship the plain facts. Weel then⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And what did Lady Cromarty say to you?” demanded Ned.</p>
			<p>“Hardly a word. She simply looked at me and said she would send for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar.”</p>
			<p>Not a whit rebuffed, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bisset straightway resumed his narrative.</p>
			<p>“A perfectly proper principle if the man was capable of telling the truth. I’m no blaming her ladyship at that point, but where she departit from the proper principles of evidence⁠—”</p>
			<p>“When did Rattar come?”</p>
			<p>“This morning,” said Cicely. “And⁠—can you believe it?⁠—he absolutely denied that he had ever advised me to go away!”</p>
			<p>“I can believe it,” said Ned grimly. “And I suppose Lady Cromarty believed him?”</p>
			<p>“God, but you’re right, sir!” cried Bisset. “Your deductions are perfectly correct. Yon man had the impudence to give the haill thing a flat denial! And then naturally Miss Farmond was for off, but at first her ladyship was no for letting her go. Indeed she went the length of sending for me and telling me the young lady was not to be permitted to shift her luggage out of the house or use any conveyance.”</p>
			<p>“But Bisset was splendid!” cried Cicely. “Do you know what the foolish man did? He gave up his situation and took me away!”</p>
			<p>Bisset, the man, permitted a gleam of pleasure to illuminate his blunt features; but Bisset, the philosopher, protested with some dignity.</p>
			<p>“It was a mere matter of principle, sir. Detention of luggage like yon is no legal. I tellt her ladyship flatly that she’d find herself afore the Shirra’, and that I was no going to abet any such proceedings. I further informed her, sir, of my candid opinion of Simon Rattar, and I said plainly that he was probably meaning to marry her and get the estate under his thumb, and these were the kind o’ tricks rascally lawyers took in foolish women wi’.”</p>
			<p>“You told Lady Cromarty that!” exclaimed Ned. “And what did she say?”</p>
			<p>“We had a few disagreeable passages, as it were, sir,” said the philosopher calmly. “And then I borrowed yon trap and having advised Miss Farmond to come to Stanesland and she being amenable, I just brought her along to you.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it was on your advice then?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>Cicely and her host exchanged one fleeting glance and then looked extremely unconscious.</p>
			<p>“She’s derned wise!” said he to himself.</p>
			<p>He held out his hand to the gratified counsellor.</p>
			<p>“Well done, Bisset, you’ve touched your top form today, and I may tell you I’ve been wanting someone like you badly for a long while, if you are willing to stay on with me. Put that in your pipe, Bisset, and smoke over it! And now, you know your way, go and get yourself some tea, and a drink of the wildest poison you fancy!”</p>
			<p>Hardly was the door closed behind him than the laird put his fate to the test as promptly and directly as he did most other things.</p>
			<p>“I want you to stop on too, Cicely⁠—forever. Will you?”</p>
			<p>Her eyes, shyly questioning for a moment and then shyly tender, answered his question before her lips had moved, and it would have been hard to convince them that the minutes which followed ever had a parallel within human experience.</p>
			<p>A little later he confessed:</p>
			<p>“Do you know, Cicely, I’ve always had a funky feeling that if I ever proposed my glass eye would drop out!”</p>
			<p>The next event was the somewhat sudden entry of Lilian Cromarty, and that lady’s self control was never more severely tested or brilliantly vindicated. One startled glance, and then she was saying, briskly, and with the old bright smile:</p>
			<p>“A telegram for you, Ned.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks,” said he. “By the way, here’s the future <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ned⁠—that’s to say if she doesn’t funk it before the wedding.”</p>
			<p>Lilian’s welcome, Lilian’s embrace, and Lilian’s congratulations were alike perfect. Cicely wondered how people could ever have said the critical things of her which some of her acquaintances were unkind enough to say at times. As to Bisset’s dictum regarding the lady in the castle, that was manifestly absurd on the face of it. Miss Cromarty was clearly overjoyed to hear of her brother’s engagement.</p>
			<p>“And now, Neddy dear!” cried the bright lady, “tell me how it all came about!”</p>
			<p>Ned looked up from his telegram with a glint in his eye that was hardly a lover’s glance.</p>
			<p>“Cicely will tell you all about it,” said he. “I’m afraid I’ve got to be off pretty well as quick as I can.”</p>
			<p>He handed them the wire and they read: “Meet me eight tonight Kings Arms urgent. Carrington.”</p>
			<p>“From <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington!” exclaimed his sister.</p>
			<p>Ned smiled.</p>
			<p>“Cicely will explain him too,” he said. “By Gad, I wonder if this is going to be the finishing bit of luck!”</p>
			<p>In another twenty minutes the lights of his gig lamps were raking the night.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
