<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2>XXXIV</h2>
				<h3>A CONFIDENTIAL CONVERSATION</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The laird of Stanesland strode into the Kings Arms and demanded:</p>
			<p>"Mr. Carrington? What, having a cup of tea in his room? What's his number? 27—right! I'll walk right up, thanks."</p>
			<p>He walked right up, made the door rattle under his knuckles and strode jauntily in. There was no beating about the bush with Mr. Cromarty either in deed or word.</p>
			<p>"Well, Mr. Carrington," said he, "don't trouble to look surprised. I guess you've seen right through me for some time back."</p>
			<p>"Meaning—?" asked Carrington with his engaging smile.</p>
			<p>"Meaning that I'm the unknown, unsuspected, and mysterious person who's putting up the purse. Don't pretend you haven't tumbled to that!"</p>
			<p>"Yes," admitted Carrington, "I have tumbled."</p>
			<p>"I knew my sister had given the whole blamed show away! I take it you put your magnifying glass back in your pocket after your trip out to Stanesland?"</p>
			<p>"More or less," admitted Carrington.</p>
			<p>"Well," said Ned, "that being so, I may as well tell you what my idea was. It mayn't have been very bright; still there was a kind of method in my madness. You see I wanted you to have an absolutely clear field and let you suspect me just as much as anybody else."</p>
			<p>"In short," smiled Carrington, "you wanted to start with the other horses and not just drop the flag."</p>
			<p>"That's so," agreed Ned. "But when my sister let out about that £1200, and I saw that you must have spotted me, there didn't seem much point in keeping up the bluff, when I came to think it over. And since then, Mr. Carrington, something has happened that you ought to know and I decided to come and see you and talk to you straight."</p>
			<p>"What has happened?"</p>
			<p>Ned smiled for an instant his approval of this prompt plunge into business, and then his face set hard.</p>
			<p>"It's a most extraordinary thing," said he, "and may strike you as hardly credible, but here's the plain truth put shortly. Yesterday afternoon Miss Farmond ran away." Carrington merely nodded, and he exclaimed, "What! You know then?"</p>
			<p>"I learned from Bisset this morning."</p>
			<p>"Ah, I see. Did you know I'd happened to see her start and gone after her and brought her back?"</p>
			<p>Carrington's interest was manifest.</p>
			<p>"No," said he, "that's quite news to me."</p>
			<p>"Well, I did, and I learnt the whole story from her. You can't guess who advised her to bolt?"</p>
			<p>"I think I can," said Carrington quietly.</p>
			<p>"Either you're on the wrong track, or you've cut some ice, Mr. Carrington. It was Simon Rattar!"</p>
			<p>"I thought so."</p>
			<p>"How the devil did you guess?"</p>
			<p>"Tell me Miss Farmond's story first and I'll tell you how I guessed."</p>
			<p>"Well, she spotted you were a detective—"</p>
			<p>Carrington started and then laughed.</p>
			<p>"Confound these women!" said he. "They're so infernally independent of reason, they always spot things they shouldn't!"</p>
			<p>"Then she discovered she was suspected and so she got in a stew, poor girl, and went to see Rattar. Do you know what he told her? That I was employing you and meant to convict Sir Malcolm and her and hang them with my own hands!"</p>
			<p>"The old devil!" cried Carrington. "Well, no wonder she bolted, Mr. Cromarty!"</p>
			<p>"But even that was done by Simon's advice. He actually gave her an address in London to go to."</p>
			<p>"Pretty thorough!" murmured Carrington.</p>
			<p>"Now what do you make of that? And what ought one to do? And, by the way, how did you guess Simon was at the bottom of it?"</p>
			<p>Carrington leaned back in his chair and thought for a moment before answering.</p>
			<p>"We are in pretty deep waters, Mr. Cromarty," he said slowly. "As to what I make of it—nothing as yet. As to what we are to do—also nothing in the meantime. But as to how I guessed, well I can tell you this much. I had to get information from someone, and so I called on Mr. Rattar and told him who I was—in strict confidence, by the way, so that he had no business to tell Miss Farmond or anybody else. I had started off, I may say, with a wrong guess: I thought Rattar himself was probably either my employer or acting for my employer, and when I suggested this he told me I was right."</p>
			<p>"What!" shouted Ned. "The grunting old devil told you that?" He stared at the other for a moment, and then demanded, "Why did he tell you that lie?"</p>
			<p>"Fortune played my cards for me. Quite innocently and unintentionally. I tempted him. I said if I could be sure he was my employer I'd keep him in touch with everything I was doing. I had also let him know that my employer had made it an absolute condition that his name was not to appear. He evidently wanted badly to know what I was doing, and thought he was safe not to be given away."</p>
			<p>"Then have you kept him in touch with everything you have done?"</p>
			<p>Carrington smiled.</p>
			<p>"I tell you, Mr. Cromarty, my cards were being played for me. Five minutes later I asked him who benefited by the will and I learned that you had scored the precise sum of £1200."</p>
			<p>"I hadn't thought of that when I made my limit £1200!" exclaimed Ned. "Lord, you must have bowled me out at once! Of course, you spotted the coincidence straight off?"</p>
			<p>"But Rattar didn't! I pushed it under his nose and he didn't see it! Inside of one second I'd asked myself whether it was possible for an astute man like that not to notice such a coincidence supposing he had really guaranteed me exactly that sum—an extraordinarily large and curious sum too."</p>
			<p>"I like these simple riddles," said Ned with a twinkle in his single eye. "I guess your answer to yourself was 'No!'"</p>
			<p>Carrington nodded.</p>
			<p>"That's what I call having my cards played for me. I knew then that the man was lying; so I threw him off the scent, changed the subject, and did <i>not</i> keep Mr. Simon Rattar in touch with any single thing I did after that."</p>
			<p>"Good for you!" said Ned.</p>
			<p>"Good so far, but the next riddle wasn't of the simple kind—or else I'm even a bigger ass than I endeavour to look! What was the man's game?"</p>
			<p>"Have you spotted it yet?"</p>
			<p>Carrington shook his head.</p>
			<p>"Mr. Simon Rattar's game is the toughest proposition in the way of puzzles I've ever struck. While I'm at it I'll just tell you one or two other small features of that first interview."</p>
			<p>He lit a cigarette and leant over the arm of his chair towards his visitor, his manner growing keener as he talked.</p>
			<p>"I happened to have met Miss Farmond that morning and my interview had knocked the bottom out of the story that she was concerned in the crime. I had satisfied myself also that she was not engaged to Sir Malcolm."</p>
			<p>"How did you discover that?" exclaimed Ned.</p>
			<p>"Her manner when I mentioned him. But I found that old Rattar was wrong on both these points and apparently determined to remain wrong. Of course, it might have been a mere error of judgment, but at the same time he had no evidence whatever against her, and it seemed to suggest a curious bias. And finally, I didn't like the look of the man."</p>
			<p>"And then you came out to see me?"</p>
			<p>"I went out to Keldale House first and then out to you. I next interviewed Sir Malcolm."</p>
			<p>"Interviewed Malcolm Cromarty!" exclaimed Ned. "Where?"</p>
			<p>"He came up to see me," explained Carrington easily, "and the gentleman had scarcely spoken six sentences before I shared your opinion of him, Mr. Cromarty—a squirt but not homicidal. He gave me, however, one very interesting piece of information. Rattar had advised him to keep away from these parts, and for choice to go abroad. I need hardly ask whether you consider that sound advice to give a suspected man."</p>
			<p>"Seems to me nearly as rotten advice as he gave Miss Farmond."</p>
			<p>"Exactly. So when I heard that Miss Farmond had flown and discovered she had paid a visit to Mr. Rattar the previous day, I guessed who had given her the advice."</p>
			<p>Carrington sat back in his chair with folded arms and looked at his employer with a slight smile, as much as to say, "Tell me the rest of the story!" Cromarty returned his gaze in silence, his heaviest frown upon his brow.</p>
			<p>"It seems to me," said Ned at last, "that Simon Rattar is mixed up in this business—sure! He has something to hide and he's trying to put people off the scent, I'll lay my bottom dollar!"</p>
			<p>"What is he hiding?" enquired Carrington, looking up at the ceiling.</p>
			<p>"What do you think?"</p>
			<p>Carrington shook his head, his eyes still gazing dreamily upwards.</p>
			<p>"I wish to Heaven I knew what to think!" he murmured; and then he resumed a brisker air and continued, "I am ready to suspect Simon Rattar of any crime in the calendar—leaving out petty larceny and probably bigamy. But he's the last man to do either good or evil unless he saw a dividend at the end, and where does he score by taking any part or parcel in conniving at or abetting or concealing evidence or anything else, so far as this particular crime is concerned? He has lost his best client, with whom he was on excellent terms and whose family he had served all his life, and he has now got instead an unsatisfactory young ass whom he suspects, or says he suspects, of murder, and who so loathes Rattar that, as far as I can judge, he will probably take his business away from him. To suspect Rattar of actually conniving at, or taking any part in the actual crime itself is, on the face of it, to convict either Rattar or oneself of lunacy!"</p>
			<p>"I knew Sir Reginald pretty well," said Ned, "but of course I didn't know much about his business affairs. He hadn't been having any trouble with Rattar, had he?"</p>
			<p>Carrington threw him a quick, approving glance.</p>
			<p>"We are thinking on the same lines," said he, "and I have unearthed one very odd little misunderstanding, but it seems to have been nothing more than that, and, apart from it, all accounts agree that there was no trouble of any kind or description."</p>
			<p>He took a cigarette out of his case and struck a match.</p>
			<p>"There must be <i>some</i> motive for everything one does—even for smoking this cigarette. If I disliked cigarettes, knew smoking was bad for me, and stood in danger of being fined if I was caught doing it, why should I smoke? I can see no point whatever in Rattar's taking the smallest share even in diverting the course of justice by a hair's breadth. He and you and I have to all appearances identical interests in the matter."</p>
			<p>"You are wiser than I am," said Ned simply, but with a grim look in his eye, "but all I can say is I am going out with my gun to look for Simon Rattar."</p>
			<p>Carrington laughed.</p>
			<p>"I'm afraid you'll have to catch him at something a little better known to the charge-sheets than giving bad advice to a lady client, before it's safe to fire!" said he.</p>
			<p>"But, look here, Carrington, have you collected no other facts whatever about this case?"</p>
			<p>Carrington shot him a curious glance, but answered nothing else.</p>
			<p>"Oh well," said Ned, "if you don't want to say anything yet, don't say it. Play your hand as you think best."</p>
			<p>"Mr. Cromarty," replied Carrington, "I assure you I don't want to make facts into mysteries, but when they <i>are</i> mysteries—well, I like to think 'em over a bit before I trust myself to talk. In the course of this very afternoon I've collected an assortment either of facts or fiction that seem to have broken loose from a travelling nightmare."</p>
			<p>"Mind telling where you got 'em?" asked Ned.</p>
			<p>"Chiefly from Rattar's housemaid, a very excellent but somewhat high-strung and imaginative young woman, and how much to believe of what she told me I honestly don't know. And the more one can believe, the worse the puzzle gets! However, there is one statement which I hope to be able to check. It may throw some light on the lady's veracity generally. Meantime I am like a man trying to build a house of what may be bricks or may be paper bags."</p>
			<p>Ned rose with his usual prompt decision.</p>
			<p>"I see," said he. "And I guess you find one better company than two at this particular moment. I won't shoot Simon Rattar till I hear from you, though by Gad, I'm tempted to kick him just to be going on with! But look here, Carrington, if my services will ever do you the least bit of good—in fact, so long as I'm not actually in the way—just send me a wire and I'll come straight. You won't refuse me that?"</p>
			<p>Carrington looked at the six feet two inches of pure lean muscle and smiled.</p>
			<p>"Not likely!" he said. "That's not the sort of offer I refuse. I won't hesitate to wire if there's anything happening. But don't count on it. I can't see any business doing just yet."</p>
			<p>Ned held out his hand, and then suddenly said, "You don't see any business doing just yet? But you feel you're on his track, sure! Now, don't you?"</p>
			<p>Carrington glanced at him out of an eye half quizzical, half abstracted.</p>
			<p>"Whose track?" he asked.</p>
			<p>Ned paused for a second and then rapped out:</p>
			<p>"Was it Simon himself?"</p>
			<p>"If we were all living in a lunatic asylum, probably yes! If we were living in the palace of reason, certainly not—the thing's ridiculous! What we are actually living in, however, is—" he broke off and gazed into space.</p>
			<p>"What?" said Ned.</p>
			<p>"A blank fog!"</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
