<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Sporting Visitor</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>In summer and autumn, visitors were not uncommon in this remote countryside; mostly shooting or fishing people who rented the country houses, raised the local prices, and were described by the tradesmen as benefiting the county greatly. But in late autumn and winter this fertilising stream ceased to flow, and when the trains from the south crawled in, the porters and the boots from the hotels resigned themselves to welcoming a merely commercial form of traveller.</p>
			<p>It was therefore with considerable pleasure and surprise that they observed one afternoon an unmistakeably sporting gentleman descend from a first class compartment and survey them with a condescending yet affable eye.</p>
			<p>“Which is the best of these hotels?” he demanded with an amiable smile, as he surveyed through a single eyeglass the names on the caps of the various boots.</p>
			<p>His engaging air disarmed the enquiry of embarrassment, and even when he finally selected the Kings Arms Hotel, the other boots merely felt regret that they had not secured so promising a client. His luggage confirmed the first favourable impression. It included a gun case, a bag of golf clubs, and one or two handsome leather articles. Evidently he meant to make more than a passing visit, and as he strolled down the platform, his leisurely nonchalant air and something even in the way in which he smoked his cigarette in its amber holder, suggested a gentleman who, having arrived here, was in no hurry to move on. On a luggage label the approving boots noted the name of “F. T. Carrington.”</p>
			<p>When he arrived at the Kings Arms, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington continued to produce favourable impressions. He was a young man, apparently a little over thirty, above middle height, with a round, ingenuous, very agreeable face, smooth fair hair, a little, neatly trimmed moustache, and a monocle that lent just the necessary touch of distinction to what might otherwise have been a too good-humoured physiognomy. His tweed suit was fashionably cut and of a distinctly sportive pattern, and he wore a pair of light spats. In short, there could be no mistaking him for anything but a gentleman of position and leisure with strong sporting proclivities, and his manner amply confirmed this. It was in fact almost indolent in its leisurely ease.</p>
			<p>Miss Peterkin, the capable manageress of the Kings Arms, was at first disposed to think <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington a trifle too superior, and, as she termed it, “la-de-da,” but a very few minutes’ conversation with the gentleman completely reassured her. He was so polite and so good-humoured and so ready to be pleased with everything he saw and anything she suggested, that they became firm friends within ten minutes of his arrival, and after <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington had disposed of his luggage in the bedroom and private sitting room which he engaged, and partaken of a little dinner, she found herself welcoming him into her own sitting room where a few choice spirits nightly congregated.</p>
			<p>It is true that these spirits, though choice, were hardly of what she called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s “class,” but then in all her experience she had never met a gentleman of such fashion and such a superior air, who adapted himself so charmingly to any society. In fact, “charming” was the very adjective for him, she decided.</p>
			<p>About his own business he was perfectly frank. He had heard of the sporting possibilities of the county and had come to look out for a bit of fishing or shooting; preferably fishing, for it seemed he was an enthusiastic angler. Of course, it was too late in the season for any fishing this year, but he was looking ahead as he preferred to see things for himself instead of trusting to an agent’s description. He had brought his gun just on the chance of getting a day somewhere, and his club in case there happened to be a golf links. In short, he seemed evidently to be a young man of means who lived for sport; and what other question could one ask about such a satisfactory type of visitor? Absolutely none, in Miss Peterkin’s opinion.</p>
			<p>As a matter of fact, she found very early in the evening, and continued to find thereafter, that the most engaging feature of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s character was the interest he took in other people’s business, so that the conversation very quickly strayed away from his own concerns⁠—and remained away. It was not that he showed any undue curiosity; far from it. He was simply so sympathetic and such a good listener and put questions that showed he was following everything you said to him in a way that really very few people did. And, moreover, in spite of his engaging frankness, there was an indefinable air of discretion about him that made one feel safe to tell him practically everything. She herself told him the sad story of her brother in Australia (a tale which, as a rule, she told only to her special intimates) before he had been in her room half an hour.</p>
			<p>But with the arrival of three or four choice spirits, the conversation became more general, and it was naturally not long before it turned on the greatest local sensation and mystery within the memory of man⁠—the Cromarty murder. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s surprise was extreme when he realised that he was actually in the county where the tragedy had occurred, within a very few miles of the actual spot, in fact. Of course, he had read about it in the papers, but only cursorily, it seemed, and he had no idea he was coming into the identical district that had acquired such a sinister notoriety.</p>
			<p>“By Jove!” he exclaimed more than once when he had made this discovery, “I say, how interesting!”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said Miss Peterkin with becoming pride, “we are getting quite famous, I can assure you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington.”</p>
			<p>“Rather so!” cried he, “I’ve read quite a lot about this Carnegie case⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Cromarty,” corrected one of the spirits.</p>
			<p>“Cromarty, of course, I mean! I’m rather an ass at names, I’m afraid.” The young man smiled brightly and all the spirits sympathised. “Oh yes, I’ve seen it reported in the papers. And now to think here I am in the middle of it, by George! How awfully interesting! I say, Miss Peterkin, what about these gentlemen having another wee droppie with me, all round, just to celebrate the occasion?”</p>
			<p>With such an appreciative and hospitable audience, Miss Peterkin and the choice spirits spent a long and delightful evening in retailing every known circumstance of the drama, and several that were certainly unknown to the authorities. He was vastly interested, though naturally very shocked, to hear who was commonly suspected of the crime.</p>
			<p>“Do you mean to say his own heir⁠—and a young girl like that⁠—? By Jove, I say, how dreadful!” he exclaimed, and, in fact, he would hardly believe such a thing conceivable until all the choice spirits in turn had assured him that there was practically no doubt about it.</p>
			<p>The energetic part played by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar in unravelling the dark skein, or at least in trying to, was naturally described at some length, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington showed his usual sympathetic, and, one might almost say, entranced appreciation of the many facts told him concerning that local celebrity.</p>
			<p>Finally Miss Peterkin insisted on getting out the back numbers of the local paper giving the full details of the case, and with many thanks he took these off to read before he went to bed.</p>
			<p>“But mind you don’t give yourself the creeps and keep yourself from going to sleep, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington!” she warned him with the last words.</p>
			<p>“By Jove, that’s an awful thought!” he exclaimed, and then his eyes twinkled. “Send me up another whisky and soda to cure the creeps!” said he.</p>
			<p>Miss Peterkin thought he was quite one of the pleasantest, and promised to be one of the most profitable gentlemen she had met for a very long time.</p>
			<p>Next morning he assured her he had kept the creeps at bay sufficiently to enjoy an excellent night’s sleep in a bed that did the management credit. In fact, he had thoroughly enjoyed reading the mystery and had even begun to feel some curiosity to see the scene of the tragedy. He proposed to have a few walks and drives through the neighbouring country, he said, looking at its streams and lochs with an eye to sporting possibilities, and it would be interesting to be able to recognise Keldale House if he chanced to pass near it.</p>
			<p>Miss Peterkin told him which road led to Keldale and how the house might be recognised, and suggested that he should walk out that way this very morning. He seemed a little doubtful; spoke of his movements as things that depended very much on the whim of the moment, just as such an easy-going young man would be apt to do, and rather indicated that a shorter walk would suit him better that morning.</p>
			<p>And then a few minutes later she saw him saunter past her window, wearing a light gray felt hat at a graceful angle and apparently taking a sympathetic interest in a small boy trying to mount a bicycle.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
