<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Two Women</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>On the day after the funeral Lady Cromarty for the first time felt able to see the family lawyer. Simon Rattar came out in the morning in a hired car and spent more than a couple of hours with her. Then for a short time he was closeted with Sir Malcolm, who, referring to the interview afterwards, described him as “infernally close and unsatisfactory”; and finally, in company with the young baronet and Cicely Farmond, he ate a hurried lunch and departed.</p>
			<p>Ever since the fatal evening, Lady Cromarty had been shut up in her own apartments and the two young people had taken their meals together. Sir Malcolm at his brightest and best had been capricious company. He was now moody beyond all Cicely’s experience of him. His newborn solemnity was the most marked feature of his demeanour, but sometimes it dissolved into pathetic demands for sympathy, and then again froze into profound and lugubrious silence. He said that he was sleeping badly, and the pallor of his face and the darkness beneath his eyes seemed to confirm this. Several times he appeared to be on the point of some peculiarly solemn disclosure of his feelings or his symptoms, but always ended by upbraiding his fellow guest for her lack of sympathy, and then relapsing into silence.</p>
			<p>Every now and then on such occasions Cicely caught him staring at her with an expression she had never seen before, and then looking hurriedly away; a disconcerting habit that made her own lot none the easier. So far as the observant Bisset could judge, the baronet seemed, indeed, to be having so depressing an effect upon the young lady that as her friend and counsellor he took the liberty of advising a change of air.</p>
			<p>“We’ll miss you vera much, Miss Farmond,” he was good enough to say, “but I’m thinking that what you want is a seaside resort.”</p>
			<p>She smiled a little sadly.</p>
			<p>“I shall have to make a change very soon, Bisset,” she said. “Indeed, perhaps I ought to have let Lady Cromarty know already that I was ready to go the moment I was sure I could do nothing more for her.”</p>
			<p>She began her packing on the morning of Simon’s visit. At lunch her air was a little livelier at first, as if even Simon Rattar were a welcome variety in a régime of undiluted baronet. Sir Malcolm, too, endeavoured to do the honours with some degree of cheerfulness; but short though the meal was, both were silent before the end and vaguely depressed afterwards.</p>
			<p>“I can’t stand the old fellow’s fishy eye!” declared Sir Malcolm. “I’d as soon lunch with a cod-fish, dash it! Didn’t you feel it too, Cicely?”</p>
			<p>“He seemed to look at one so uncomfortably,” she agreed. “I couldn’t help feeling he had something on his mind against me, though I suppose he really doesn’t trouble his head about my existence.”</p>
			<p>“I’m hanged if I like the way he looks at me!” muttered the baronet, and once again Cicely caught that odd expression in his eye.</p>
			<p>That afternoon Bisset informed Miss Farmond that her ladyship desired to see her. Lady Cromarty’s face looked thinner than ever and her lips more tightly compressed. In her deep mourning and with her grave air, she seemed to Cicely a monumental figure of tragedy. Her thinness and pallor and tight lips, she thought only natural, but there was one note that seemed discordant with pure desolation. The note was sounded by Lady Cromarty’s eyes. At all times they had been ready to harden upon an occasion, but Cicely thought she had never seen them as hard as they were now.</p>
			<p>“What are your plans, Cicely?” she asked in a low, even voice that showed no feeling one way or the other.</p>
			<p>“I have begun to pack already,” said the girl. “I don’t want to leave so long as I can be of any use here, but I am ready to go at any time.”</p>
			<p>She had expected to be asked where she was going, but Lady Cromarty instead of putting any question, looked at her for a few moments in silence. And it was then that a curious uncomfortable feeling began to possess the girl. It had no definite form and was founded on no reason, beyond the steady regard of those hard dark eyes.</p>
			<p>“I had rather you stayed.”</p>
			<p>Cicely’s own eyes showed her extreme surprise.</p>
			<p>“Stayed⁠—here?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“But are you sure? Wouldn’t you really rather be alone? It isn’t for my sake, is it? because⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It is for mine. I want you to remain here and keep me company.”</p>
			<p>She spoke without a trace of smile or any softening of her face, and Cicely still hesitated.</p>
			<p>“But would it really be convenient? You have been very kind to me, and if you really want me here⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I do,” interrupted Lady Cromarty in the same even voice. “I want you particularly to remain.”</p>
			<p>“Very well then, I shall. Thank you very much⁠—”</p>
			<p>Again she was cut short.</p>
			<p>“That is settled then. Perhaps you will excuse me now, Cicely.”</p>
			<p>The girl went downstairs very thoughtfully. At the foot the young baronet met her.</p>
			<p>“Have you settled where to go?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Lady Cromarty has asked me to stay on with her.”</p>
			<p>His face fell.</p>
			<p>“Stay on in this house of mourning? Oh, no, Cicely!”</p>
			<p>“I have promised,” she said.</p>
			<p>The young man grew curiously agitated.</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t stay here!” he besought her. “It keeps me in such dreadful suspense!”</p>
			<p>“In suspense!” she exclaimed. “Whatever do you mean, Malcolm?”</p>
			<p>Again she saw that look in his eye, and again he raised a sympathy-beseeching wail. Cicely’s patience began to give way.</p>
			<p>“Really, Malcolm!” she cried tartly, “if you have anything to say, say it, but don’t go on like a baby!”</p>
			<p>“Like a baby!” repeated the deeply affronted baronet. “Heavens, would you liken me to <i>that</i>, of all things! I had meant to confide in you, Cicely, but you have made it impossible. Impossible!” he repeated sombrely, and stalked to the door.</p>
			<p>Next morning, Sir Malcolm left for London, his confidence still locked in his breast, and Cicely was alone with Lady Cromarty.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
