<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI: At Stanesland</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">At Stanesland</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s interview with the laird of Stanesland began on much the same lines as his talk with Bisset. The amiable visitor was shown into the laird’s smoking room⁠—an apartment with vast walls like a dungeon and on them trophies from the laird’s adventurous days, and proceeded to make enquiry whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty was disposed to let his shootings for next season, or, if not, whether he could recommend any others.</p>
			<p>As the visitor was in no hurry, he declared, to fix anything up, it was very natural that this conversation, like the morning’s, should eventually turn on to the subject of the great local mystery. Through it all <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s monocle was more continually fixed on the other than usual, but if he were looking for peculiarities in the laird’s manner or any admissions made either by tongue or eye, he was disappointed. Cromarty was as breezy and as direct as ever, but even when his visitor confessed his extreme interest in such cases of remarkable crime, he (to all seeming) scented nothing in this beyond a not uncommon hobby. There was no doubt, however, of his keenness to discuss the subject. Carrington gave him an entertaining account of his efforts to assist <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bisset, and then Ned asked:</p>
			<p>“Well, what do you think of his theory that the man came in by the window?”</p>
			<p>Carrington smiled.</p>
			<p>“Bisset is evidently extremely anxious to save the credit of the family.”</p>
			<p>Ned Cromarty was aroused now.</p>
			<p>“Good God!” he cried. “But do you mean to say that you think that story will hold water?”</p>
			<p>“What story?” enquired Carrington mildly.</p>
			<p>“You know what I mean⁠—the scandal that Sir Malcolm and⁠—and a lady were concerned in the murder.”</p>
			<p>“They are said to have actually committed it, aren’t they?”</p>
			<p>Ned’s eye began to look dangerous.</p>
			<p>“Do you think it’s credible?” he asked brusquely.</p>
			<p>“You know them better than I. Do you think it is?”</p>
			<p>“Not for an instant!”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t met Sir Malcolm,” said Carrington, wiping his eyeglass on his handkerchief. “I can’t judge of him. What sort of a fellow is he?”</p>
			<p>“A bit of a young squirt,” said Ned candidly. “But I’ll not believe he’s a murderer till I get some proof of it.”</p>
			<p>“And Miss Farmond? Is she at all a murderous lady?”</p>
			<p>He fixed his monocle in his eye just in time to see his host control himself after what seemed to have been a somewhat violent spasm.</p>
			<p>“I’ll stake my life on her innocence!” said Ned, and it was hard to know whether his manner as he said this should be termed fierce or solemn.</p>
			<p>For the space of perhaps two seconds Carrington’s eyeglass stared very straight at him, and immediately afterwards was taken out for cleaning again, while its owner seemed to have found some new food for thought. The silence was broken by Ned asking brusquely:</p>
			<p>“Don’t you believe me?”</p>
			<p>Again his visitor fixed the monocle in his eye, and he answered now very quietly and deliberately:</p>
			<p>“I happened to meet a young lady one afternoon, whom I discovered to be Miss Farmond. My own impression⁠—for what it is worth⁠—is that it would be a mere waste of time to investigate the suspicion against her, supposing, that is, that one were a detective or anything of that kind engaged in this case.”</p>
			<p>“You think she is innocent?” asked Ned eagerly.</p>
			<p>“I am quite certain of it, so far as I am any judge.”</p>
			<p>Ned heaved a sigh of relief, and for an instant a smile flitted across Carrington’s face. It seemed as though he were amused at such a tribute to the opinion of a mere chance visitor.</p>
			<p>“And Sir Malcolm?” enquired Ned.</p>
			<p>Carrington shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I have no means of judging⁠—yet.”</p>
			<p>Ned glanced at him quickly.</p>
			<p>“Do you expect to get hold of a means?”</p>
			<p>Carrington’s smile was his only answer to the question. And then, still smiling, he said:</p>
			<p>“I rather wonder, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, that you who have taken so much interest in this case, and who are, I am told, the head of the family, don’t get some professional assistance to help you to get at the bottom of it.”</p>
			<p>Ned’s mouth shut hard and his eyes turned to the fire. He said nothing for a moment and then remarked:</p>
			<p>“Well, I guess that’s worth thinking over.”</p>
			<p>Carrington’s shoulders moved in an almost imperceptible shrug, but he made no comment aloud. In a moment Ned said:</p>
			<p>“Supposing those two are scored out, there doesn’t seem to be anybody else inside the house who could have committed the crime, does there? You wouldn’t suspect Lady Cromarty or Bisset, would you?”</p>
			<p>“Lady Cromarty is physically incapable of giving her husband the blow he must have received. Besides, they were a very devoted couple, I understand, and she gained nothing by his death⁠—lost heavily, in fact. As for Bisset⁠—” Carrington let his smile finish the sentence.</p>
			<p>“Then it must have been someone from outside⁠—but who?”</p>
			<p>“Can you think of anyone?” asked Carrington.</p>
			<p>Ned shook his head emphatically.</p>
			<p>“Can you?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Me?” said his visitor with an innocent air, and yet with a twinkle for an instant in his eye. “I am a mere stranger to the place, and if you and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar and the police are baffled, what can I suggest?”</p>
			<p>Ned seemed for a moment a trifle disconcerted. Then he said:</p>
			<p>“That’s so, of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington. But since we happen to be talking about it⁠—well, I guess I’m quite curious to know if any ideas have just happened to occur to you.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the other, “between ourselves, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cromarty, and speaking quite confidentially, one idea has struck me very forcibly.”</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” asked Ned eagerly.</p>
			<p>“Simply this, that though it <em>might</em> be conceivable to think of somebody or other, the difficulty that stares me in the face is⁠—motive!”</p>
			<p>Ned’s face fell.</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s what has struck all of us.”</p>
			<p>“Sir Reginald was a popular landlord, I hear.”</p>
			<p>“The most popular in the county.”</p>
			<p>“This isn’t Ireland,” continued Carrington. “Tenants don’t lay out their landlords on principle, and in this particular instance they would simply stand to lose by his death. Then take his tradesmen and his agent and so on, they all stand to lose too. An illicit love affair and a vengeful swain might be a conceivable theory, if his character gave colour to it; but there’s not a hint of that, and some rumour would have got about for certain if that had been the case.”</p>
			<p>“You may dismiss that,” said Ned emphatically.</p>
			<p>“Then there you are⁠—what’s the motive?”</p>
			<p>“If one could think of a possible man, one could probably think of a possible motive.”</p>
			<p>On Carrington’s face a curious look appeared for an instant.</p>
			<p>“I only wish one could,” he murmured.</p>
			<p>A gong sounded and Ned rose.</p>
			<p>“That means tea,” said he. “I always have it in my sister’s room. Come up.”</p>
			<p>They went up the stone stair and turned into Miss Cromarty’s boudoir. On her, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington produced a favourable impression that was evident at once. At all times she liked good-looking and agreeable gentlemen, and lately she had been suffering from a dearth of them. She had been suffering also from her brother’s pigheaded refusal to reconsider his decision not to buy a car; and finally from the lack of someone to sympathise with her in this matter. In the opulent-looking and sportingly attired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington she quickly perceived a kindred spirit, and having a tongue that was not easily intimidated even by the formidable looking laird, she launched into her grievance. They had been talking about the long distances that separated most of the mansions in the county.</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it ridiculous, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington,” said she, “we haven’t got a car!”</p>
			<p>“Absurd,” agreed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington, helping himself to cake.</p>
			<p>“Do you know, this brother of mine here has actually come into a fortune, and yet he won’t buy me even one little motor car!”</p>
			<p>Ned frowned and muttered something that might have checked their visitor’s reply, had he noticed the laird’s displeasure, but for the moment he seemed to have become very unobserving.</p>
			<p>“Come into a fortune?” said he. “What a bit of luck! How much⁠—a million⁠—two million?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, not as much as that, worse luck! But quite enough to buy at least three decent cars if he was half a sportsman! And he won’t get one!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington was now trying to balance his cake in his saucer and was evidently too absorbed in his efforts to notice his host’s waxing displeasure.</p>
			<p>“In my experience,” said he, “you can’t get a decent car much under four hundred.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said she, “that’s just the figure it would bring it to.”</p>
			<p>“Lilian!” muttered her brother wrathfully.</p>
			<p>But at that moment <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington coughed, evidently over a cake crumb, and failed to hear the expostulation.</p>
			<p>“But perhaps he is going to buy you something even handsomer instead,” he suggested.</p>
			<p>“Is he!” she scoffed, with a defiant eye on her brother. “I believe he’s going to blue it in something too scandalous to talk about in mixed society! Anyhow it’s something too mysterious to tell me!”</p>
			<p>By this time Ned’s face was a thundercloud in which lightning was clearly imminent, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington now recovered his wonted tact as suddenly as he had lost it.</p>
			<p>“That reminds me of a very curious story I heard at my club the other day,” he began, and in a few minutes the conversation was far away from Miss Cromarty’s grievances. And then, having finished his cup of tea, he looked at his watch with an exclamation and protested that he must depart on the instant.</p>
			<p>As he lay back in his car he murmured with a satisfied smile:</p>
			<p>“That’s settled anyhow!”</p>
			<p>And then for the whole drive home he fell very thoughtful indeed. Only one incident aroused him, and that but for a moment. It was quite dark by this time, and somewhere between the Keldale House lodge and the town, the lamps of the car swept for an instant over a girl riding a bicycle in the opposite direction. Carrington looked round quickly and saw that she was Miss Cicely Farmond.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
