<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Sympathetic Stranger</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Carrington’s soliloquy was interrupted by the appearance of someone on the pavement ahead of him. He pulled himself together, took out his watch, and saw that it was still only twenty minutes past twelve. After thinking for a moment, he murmured:</p>
			<p>“I might as well try ’em!”</p>
			<p>And thereupon he set out at a brisk walk, and a few minutes later was closeted with Superintendent Sutherland in the Police Station. He began by handing the Superintendent a card with the name of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. T.</abbr> Carrington on it, but with quite a different address from that on the card he had sent up to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar. It was, in fact, his business card, and the Superintendent regarded him with respectful interest.</p>
			<p>After explaining his business and his preference for not disclosing it to the public, he went briefly over the main facts of the case.</p>
			<p>“I see you’ve got them all, sir,” said the Superintendent, when he had finished. “There really seems nothing to add and no new light to be seen anywhere.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid so,” agreed Carrington. “I’m afraid so.”</p>
			<p>In fact he seemed so entirely resigned to this conclusion that he allowed, and even encouraged, the conversation to turn to other matters. The activity and enterprise of the Procurator Fiscal seemed to have particularly impressed him, and this led to a long talk on the subject of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar. The Superintendent was also a great admirer of the Fiscal and assured <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington that not only was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon himself the most capable and upright of men, but that the firm of Rattar had always conducted its business in a manner that was above reproach. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington had made one or two slightly cynical but perfectly good-natured comments on lawyers in general, but he got no countenance from the Superintendent so far as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar and his business were concerned.</p>
			<p>“But hadn’t he some trouble at one time with his brother?” his visitor enquired.</p>
			<p>The Superintendent admitted that this was so, and also that Sir Reginald Cromarty had suffered thereby, but he was quite positive that this trouble was entirely a thing of the past. There was no doubt that this information had a somewhat depressing effect even on the good-humoured <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington, and at last he confessed with a candid air:</p>
			<p>“The fact is, Superintendent, that I have a theory Sir Reginald was worrying about something before his death, and as all his business affairs are conducted by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar, I was wondering whether he had any difficulties in that direction. Now about this bad brother of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar’s⁠—there couldn’t be trouble still outstanding, you think?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Rattar was out of the firm, sir, years ago,” the Superintendent assured him. “No, it couldna be that.”</p>
			<p>“And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> George Rattar certainly died a short time ago, did he?”</p>
			<p>“I can show you the paper with his death in it. I kept it as a kind of record of the end of him.”</p>
			<p>He fetched the paper and Carrington after looking at it for a few minutes, remarked:</p>
			<p>“I see here an advertisement stating that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar lost a ring.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said the Superintendent, “that was a funny thing because it’s not often a gentleman loses a ring off his hand. I’ve half wondered since whether it was connected with a story of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar’s maid that his house had been broken into.”</p>
			<p>“When was that?”</p>
			<p>“Curiously enough it was the very night Sir Reginald was murdered.”</p>
			<p>Carrington’s chair squeaked on the floor as he sat up sharply.</p>
			<p>“The very night of the murder?” he repeated. “Why has this never come out before?”</p>
			<p>The stolid Superintendent looked at him in surprise.</p>
			<p>“But what connection could there possibly be, sir? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar thought nothing of it himself and just mentioned it so that I would know it was a mere story, in case his servants started talking about it.”</p>
			<p>“But you yourself seemed just now to think that it might not be a mere story.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that was just a kind o’ idea,” said the Superintendent easily. “It only came in my mind when the ring was never recovered.”</p>
			<p>“What were the exact facts?” demanded Carrington.</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said the Superintendent vaguely, “there was something about a window looking as if it had been entered, but really, sir, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar paid so little attention to it himself, and we were that taken up by the Keldale case that I made no special note of it.”</p>
			<p>“Did the servants ever speak of it again?”</p>
			<p>“Everybody was that taken up about the murder that I doubt if they’ve minded on it any further.”</p>
			<p>Carrington was silent for a few moments.</p>
			<p>“Are the servants intelligent girls?” he enquired.</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite average intelligent. In fact, the housemaid is a particular decent sort of a girl.”</p>
			<p>At this point, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carrington’s interest in the subject seemed to wane, and after a few pleasant generalities, he thanked the Superintendent for his courtesy, and strolled down to the hotel for lunch. This time his air as he walked was noticeably brisker and his eye decidedly brighter.</p>
			<p>About three o’clock that afternoon came a ring at the front door bell of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar’s commodious villa. Mary MacLean declared afterwards that she had a presentiment when she heard it, but then the poor girl had been rather troubled with presentiments lately. When she opened the front door she saw a particularly polite and agreeable looking gentleman adorned with that unmistakeable mark of fashion, a single eyeglass; and the gentleman saw a pleasant looking but evidently high strung and nervous young woman.</p>
			<p>“Is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Simon Rattar at home?” he enquired in a courteous voice and with a soothing smile that won her heart at once; and on hearing that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rattar always spent the afternoons at his office and would not return before five o’clock, his disappointment was so manifest that she felt sincerely sorry for him.</p>
			<p>He hesitated and was about to go away when a happy idea struck him.</p>
			<p>“Might I come in and write a line to be left for him?” he asked, and Mary felt greatly relieved at being able to assist the gentleman to assuage his disappointment in this way.</p>
			<p>She led him into the library and somehow or other by the time she had got him ink and paper and pen she found herself talking to this distinguished looking stranger in the most friendly way. It was not that he was forward or gallant, far from it; simply that he was so nice and so remarkably sympathetic. Within five minutes of making his acquaintance, Mary felt that she could tell him almost anything.</p>
			<p>This sympathetic visitor made several appreciative remarks about the house and garden, and then, just as he had dipped his pen into the ink, he remarked:</p>
			<p>“Rather a tempting house for burglars, I should think⁠—if such people existed in these peaceable parts.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but they do, sir,” she assured him. “We had one in this very house one night!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
